New Wave  may refer to various artistic movements in film, music and literature. These include:
Ukrainian New Wave (Ukrainian: Нова українська хвиля, romanized: Nova ukrainska khvylia) — a set of creative directions that arose in Ukraine in the period from the late 1980s to the early 2000s in reaction to turbulent socio-political events of that time such as collapse of the USSR, perestroika, Declaration of Independence of Ukraine. It is one of the most influential manifestation of Ukrainian postmodernism, which is characterized by a variety of works and groups of both destructive and constructive nature, aimed at both strengthening the features of fine arts and moving away from it towards actionism and replacing traditional art with the latest technologies.[1] Bright polystylistism Ukrainian New Wave originated in the previous period Ukrainian underground art, which arose spontaneously, without censorship and ideological restrictions.
Ukrainian underground was a movement in Ukraine's Soviet period from the late 1950s through the early 1990s. This art form was banned by several totalitarian countries of Eastern Europe and the USSR. It was also known under other names, such as unofficial art, nonconformism, and dissident art.
It ended due to the Perestroika reform movement, which led to Ukrainian independence in 1991. After the Soviet Union collapsed, similar counter-cultural processes developed under the names of "alternative" or "marginal" art. The avant-garde ideas of underground art were picked up and developed by the next generation of the Ukrainian New Wave.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Svalbard:
The 2011 Svalbard polar bear attack was an attack by a presumed starving polar bear on a group of university students and their guides. The bear killed one person, injured four others, and was then shot.
Longyearbyen School (Norwegian: Longyearbyen skole) is a combined primary and secondary school located in and serving Longyearbyen, Svalbard, Norway. The school has about 270 pupils and 45 teachers.[1] It is the northernmost school in the world.[2]
The Virtual International Authority File (VIAF) is an international authority file. It is a joint project of several national libraries and operated by the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC).[1]
IPI (Interested party information) is a unique identifying number assigned by the CISAC database to each Interested Party in collective rights management. It is used worldwide by more than 120 countries and three million right holders.[1]
The Virtual International Authority File (VIAF) is an international authority file. It is a joint project of several national libraries and operated by the Online Computer Library Center (OCLC).[1]
In musical rights management, the CAE number was previously used to identify rights holders. The acronym "CAE" was devised by the national society of Switzerland, SUISA, and consisted of the French words Compositeur, Auteur and Editeur, for Composer, Author and Publisher. A CAE number is 9 digits long.
The International Standard Name Identifier (ISNI) is an identifier system for uniquely identifying the public identities of contributors to media content such as books, television programmes, and newspaper articles. Such an identifier consists of 16 digits. It can optionally be displayed as divided into four blocks.
ISO 80000 or IEC 80000 is an international standard introducing the International System of Quantities (ISQ). 
It was developed and promulgated jointly by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Electrotechnical Commission  (IEC).
ISO/IEC/IEEE 42010 Systems and software engineering — Architecture description is an international standard for architecture descriptions of systems and software.
ISO/IEC 38500 is an international standard for Corporate governance of information technology published jointly by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC).  It provides a framework for effective governance of IT to assist those at the highest level of organizations to understand and fulfill their legal, regulatory, and ethical obligations in respect of their organizations’ use of IT. The standard is heavily based on the AS 8015-2005 Australian Standard for Corporate Governance of Information and Communication Technology, originally published in January 2005.[1][2]
ISO/IEC 33001 Information technology -- Process assessment -- Concepts and terminology is a set of technical standards documents for the computer software development process and related business management functions.
Software engineering is a systematic engineering approach to software development.[1][2][3]
Computer science (also called computing science) is the study of the theoretical foundations of information and computation and their implementation and application in computer systems. One well known subject classification system for computer science is the ACM Computing Classification System devised by the Association for Computing Machinery.
A document management system (DMS) is usually a computerized system used to store, share, track and manage files or documents. Some systems include history tracking where a log of the various versions created and modified by different users is recorded. The term has some overlap with the concepts of content management systems. It is often viewed as a component of enterprise content management (ECM) systems and related to digital asset management, document imaging, workflow systems and records management systems.
Technical documentation is a generic term for the classes of information created to describe (in technical language) the use, functionality or architecture of a product, system or service.
A technical file is a set of documents that describes a product and can prove that the product was designed in accordance with the requirements of a quality management system.
A Device Master Record (DMR) is a compilation of all the instructions, drawings and other records that must be used to produce a product. The term is used in Quality Management Systems that cover product design and production.
A medical device is any device intended to be used for medical purposes. Significant potential for hazards are inherent when using a device for medical purposes and thus medical devices must be proved safe and effective with reasonable assurance before regulating governments allow marketing of the device in their country. As a general rule, as the associated risk of the device increases the amount of testing required to establish safety and efficacy also increases. Further, as associated risk increases the potential benefit to the patient must also increase.
Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (LWW) is an American imprint of the American Dutch publishing conglomerate Wolters Kluwer. It was established by the acquisition of Williams & Wilkins and its merger with J.B. Lippincott Company in 1998. Under the LWW brand, Wolters Kluwer, through its Health Division, publishes scientific, technical, and medical content such as textbooks, reference works, and over 275 scientific journals (most of which are medical or other public health journals). Publications are aimed at physicians, nurses, clinicians, and students.
The International Standard Name Identifier (ISNI) is an identifier system for uniquely identifying the public identities of contributors to media content such as books, television programmes, and newspaper articles. Such an identifier consists of 16 digits. It can optionally be displayed as divided into four blocks.
The ISO 56000 is a family of standards designed to provide a framework for organizations to implement, maintain and improve innovation management systems.[1][2][3][4][5][6]
Standardization or standardisation is the process of implementing and developing technical standards based on the consensus of different parties that include firms, users, interest groups, standards organizations and governments.[1] Standardization can help maximize compatibility, interoperability, safety, repeatability, or quality. It can also facilitate a normalization of formerly custom processes. In social sciences, including economics,[2] the idea of standardization is close to the solution for a coordination problem, a situation in which all parties can realize mutual gains, but only by making mutually consistent decisions.
Semantic Scholar is an artificial intelligence–powered research tool for scientific literature developed at the Allen Institute for AI and publicly released in November 2015.[2] It uses advances in natural language processing to provide summaries for scholarly papers.[3] The Semantic Scholar team is actively researching the use of artificial-intelligence in natural language processing, machine learning, Human-Computer interaction, and information retrieval.[4]
This is a list of publishers of academic journals by their submission policies regarding the use of preprints prior to publication (example list).
PubMed Central (PMC) is a free digital repository that archives open access full-text scholarly articles that have been published in biomedical and life sciences journals. As one of the major research databases developed by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI), PubMed Central is more than a document repository. Submissions to PMC are indexed and formatted for enhanced metadata, medical ontology, and unique identifiers which enrich the XML structured data for each article.[1] Content within PMC can be linked to other NCBI databases and accessed via Entrez search and retrieval systems, further enhancing the public's ability to discover, read and build upon its biomedical knowledge.[2]
This is a summary of the different copyright policies of academic publishers for books, book chapters, and journal articles.
SAGE Publishing, formerly SAGE Publications, is an American independent publishing company founded in 1965 in New York by Sara Miller McCune and now based in Newbury Park, California.
The système universitaire de documentation or SUDOC is a system used by the libraries of French universities and higher education establishments to identify, track and manage the documents in their possession. The catalog, which contains nearly 13 million references, allows students and researchers to search for bibliographical and location information in more than 3,400 documentation centers. It is maintained by the Bibliographic Agency for Higher Education [fr] (ABES).
Information science (also known as information studies) is an academic field which is primarily concerned with analysis, collection, classification, manipulation, storage, retrieval, movement, dissemination, and protection of information.[1] Practitioners within and outside the field study the  application and the usage of knowledge in organizations in addition to the interaction between people, organizations, and any existing information systems with the aim of creating, replacing, improving, or understanding the information systems.
Information art, which is also known as informatism or data art, is an emerging art form that is inspired by and principally incorporates data, computer science, information technology, artificial intelligence, and related data-driven fields. The information revolution has resulted in over-abundant data that are critical in a wide range of areas, from the Internet to healthcare systems. Related to conceptual art, electronic art and new media art, informatism considers this new technological, economical, and cultural paradigm shift, such that artworks may provide social commentaries, synthesize multiple disciplines, and develop new aesthetics.[1] Realization of information art often take, although not necessarily, interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary approaches incorporating visual, audio, data analysis, performance, and others.[2] Furthermore, physical and virtual installations involving informatism often provide human-computer interaction that generate artistic contents based on the processing of large amounts of data.[3]
Conceptual art, also referred to as conceptualism, is art in which the concept(s) or idea(s) involved in the work take precedence over traditional aesthetic, technical, and material concerns. Some works of conceptual art, sometimes called installations, may be constructed by anyone simply by following a set of written instructions.[1] This method was fundamental to American artist Sol LeWitt's definition of conceptual art, one of the first to appear in print:
This is a list of the highest known prices paid for sculptures.
This is a list of female sculptors – women notable for their three-dimensional artistic work (including sound and light). Do not add entries for those without a Wikipedia article.
This is a list of sculptors – notable people known for three-dimensional artistic creations, which may include those who use sound and light. It is incomplete and you can help by expanding it.
The following list of painters by name includes about 3,400 painters from all ages and parts of the world.
This is a list of modern artists: important artists who have played a role in the history of modern art, dating from the late 19th century until (approximately) the 1970s. Artists who have been at the height of their activity since that date, can be found in the list of contemporary artists.
This is a list of contemporary art galleries, i.e., commercial galleries for-profit, privately-owned businesses dealing in artworks by contemporary artists born after 1945.
This is a list of single-artist museums, which are museums displaying the work of, or bearing the name of, a single visual artist.
Types of art techniques There is no exact definition of what constitutes art. Artists have explored many styles and have used many different techniques to create art.[1][2][3]
An art magazine is a publication whose main topic is art. They can be in print form, online, or both and may be aimed at different audiences, including galleries, buyers, amateur or professional artists and the general public. Art magazines can be either trade or consumer magazines or both.
In the visual arts, style is a "... distinctive manner which permits the grouping of works into related categories"[1] or "... any distinctive, and therefore recognizable, way in which an act is performed or an artifact made or ought to be performed and made".[2] It refers to the visual appearance of a work of art that relates it to other works by the same artist or one from the same period, training, location, "school", art movement or archaeological culture: "The notion of style has long been the art historian's principal mode of classifying works of art. By style he selects and shapes the history of art".[3]
South Asia
South Asia
Verstehen (German pronunciation: [fɛɐˈʃteːən], lit. transl. "to understand"), in the context of German philosophy and social sciences in general, has been used since the late 19th century – in English as in German – with the particular sense of the "interpretive or participatory" examination of social phenomena.[1] The term is closely associated with the work of the German sociologist Max Weber, whose antipositivism established an alternative to prior sociological positivism and economic determinism, rooted in the analysis of social action.[2] In anthropology, Verstehen has come to mean a systematic interpretive process in which an outside observer of a culture attempts to relate to it and understand others.
Core concepts
Phronesis (Ancient Greek: φρόνησῐς, romanized: phrónēsis), is a type of wisdom or intelligence relevant to practical action. It implies both good judgment and excellence of character and habits, and was a common topic of discussion in ancient Greek philosophy, in ways that are still influential today. In Aristotelian ethics, the concept is distinguished from other words for wisdom and intellectual virtues – such as episteme and techne – because of its practical character. The traditional Latin translation was prudentia, the source of the English word "prudence". Among other proposals, Thomas McEvilley has proposed that the best translation is "mindfulness".[1]
In philosophy, objectivity is the concept of truth independent from individual subjectivity (bias caused by one's perception, emotions, or imagination). A proposition is considered to have objective truth when its truth conditions are met without bias caused by the mind of a sentient being. Scientific objectivity refers to the ability to judge without partiality or external influence. Objectivity in the moral framework calls for moral codes to be assessed based on the well-being of the people in the society that follow it.[1] Moral objectivity also calls for moral codes to be compared to one another through a set of universal facts and not through subjectivity.[1]
Bastiaan Cornelis van Fraassen (/væn ˈfrɑːsən/; born 1941) is a Dutch-American philosopher noted for his contributions to philosophy of science, epistemology and formal logic. He is a Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at San Francisco State University and the McCosh Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Princeton University.
The Library Network of Western Switzerland (French: Réseau des bibliothèques de Suisse occidentale; RERO) was founded by several major libraries in 1985, in the French-speaking region of Romandy in western Switzerland. RERO is a syllabic abbreviation of "Réseau Romand" ("Romand Network").
The University of Neuchâtel (UniNE) is a French-speaking public research university in Neuchâtel, Switzerland. The university has four faculties (schools) and more than a dozen institutes, including arts and human sciences, natural sciences, law and economics. The Faculty of Arts and Human Sciences, with 2,000 students, is the largest school of those that comprise the University of Neuchâtel.
Scholars at Risk (SAR) is a U.S.-based international network of academic institutions organized to support and defend the principles of academic freedom[1] and to defend the human rights of scholars around the world. Network membership includes over 530 higher education institutions in 42 countries.[2]
Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) is a British company specialising in the analysis of higher education institutions around the world.[1] The company was founded in 1990 by Nunzio Quacquarelli.[2]
A Hispanic-serving institution (HSI) is defined in federal law as an accredited, degree-granting, public or private nonprofit institution of higher education with 25% or more total undergraduate Hispanic or Latino full-time equivalent (FTE) student enrollment.[1][2] In the 2018–19 academic year, 539 institutions met the federal enrollment criterion.[3]
A Hispanic-serving institution (HSI) is defined in federal law as an accredited, degree-granting, public or private nonprofit institution of higher education with 25% or more total undergraduate Hispanic or Latino full-time equivalent (FTE) student enrollment.[1][2] In the 2018–19 academic year, 539 institutions met the federal enrollment criterion.[3]
Colegio Cesar Chavez (Spanish for "Cesar Chavez College") was an American college-without-walls in Mount Angel, Oregon. The college was named after Mexican American civil rights activist César Chávez. Colegio was established in 1973 and closed in 1983.[1][2] Colegio was the first accredited, independent four-year Chicano/Latino college in the United States. In 1975 it was granted candidacy status from the Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges.[3] In 1977, Colegio granted degrees to 22 graduates, a number exceeding the combined number of Chicanos who graduated that same year from University of Oregon and Oregon State University.[4] In his book Colegio Cesar Chavez, 1973–1983: A Chicano Struggle for Educational Self-Determination, author Carlos Maldonado writes that Colegio Cesar Chavez was one of the few institutions that was named after Cesar Chavez during his lifetime.
Willamette University College of Medicine is a former school of medicine that was part of Willamette University. Founded in 1867 as the first medical school in Oregon, the school relocated between Portland and the main university campus in Salem several times. The school was merged with the University of Oregon's medical school in Portland in 1913. That school later became Oregon Health & Science University.
Portland University was a private, Methodist post-secondary school in Portland, Oregon, United States. Founded in 1891 in a split from Willamette University, the school closed in 1900. The campus was located in what is now the University Park neighborhood and later became home of the University of Portland. The original campus building, West Hall, still stands and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
Oregon College of Art and Craft (OCAC) was a private art college in Portland, Oregon. It granted Bachelor of Fine Arts and Master of Fine Arts degrees as well as art-focused certificates. The college offered an Artist-in-Residence program and provided continuing education in the arts to the local community. It was founded by Julia Christiansen Hoffman, a photographer, painter, sculptor, metal worker and weaver, out of her desire to foster the Arts and Crafts movement through classes and exhibitions. The college closed at the end of the spring 2019 semester.
Osaka University of Arts (大阪芸術大学, Ōsaka Geijutsu Daigaku) is a private arts university located in Kanan, Minamikawachi District, Osaka Prefecture, Japan. The university was founded in 1945 as Hirano English Cram School (平野英学塾, Hirano Eigakujuku), changing its name to Osaka School of the Fine Arts (大阪美術学校, Ōsaka Bijutsu Gakkō) in 1957, and then to Naniwa University of the Arts (浪速芸術大学, Naniwa Geijutsu Daigaku) in 1964. The university adopted the current name in 1966.
Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design (Hebrew: בצלאל, אקדמיה לאמנות ועיצוב) is a public college of design and art located in Jerusalem. Established in 1906 by Jewish painter and sculptor Boris Schatz, Bezalel is Israel's oldest institution of higher education and is considered the most prestigious art school in the country. It is named for the Biblical figure Bezalel, son of Uri (Hebrew: בְּצַלְאֵל בֶּן־אוּרִי), who was appointed by Moses to oversee the design and construction of the Tabernacle (Exodus 35:30). The art created by Bezalel's students and professors in the early 1900s is considered the springboard for Israeli visual arts in the 20th century.
Western Galilee College (Hebrew: המכללה האקדמית גליל מערבי)  is an academic college in northern Israel within the jurisdiction of the city of Akko. It was founded in 1994 on the basis of its predecessor, the Western Galilee Regional College, which was founded in 1972.
Tel-Hai College is a college located in Tel Hai in northern Israel, near  Kibbutz Kfar Giladi and north of Kiryat Shmona.
Shenkar College of Engineering, Design and Art (commonly abbreviated as Shenkar) is a public college in Ramat Gan, Israel. Shenkar serves the Israeli industry by providing academic qualification and R&D services for modern industries.
Shenkar is also considered as the top design school in Israel.
Shalem College (Hebrew: המרכז האקדמי שלם, HaMerkaz HaAkademi Shalem) is a private liberal arts college in Jerusalem, Israel providing undergraduate education and founded with the aim of producing "broadly educated citizens for lives of influence and service."[3] It is the only Israeli institution of higher education to offer a broad-based Core Curriculum as the basis for a first degree, as opposed to the general practice in Israeli universities and colleges of restricting a student's courses to a single department or field.[4][1]
The Academic Center for Law and Science (Hebrew: המרכז האקדמי שערי מדע ומשפט), previously Sha'arei Mishpat Academic Center and earlier Sha'arei Mishpat College is a private college in Hod HaSharon, Israel. It was established in 1995. Justice Prof. Menachem Elon Was its founder and president for the first eight years of its existence.
A law school (also known as a law centre, college of law, or faculty of law) is an institution specializing in legal education, usually involved as part of a process for becoming a judge, lawyer, or other legal professional within a given jurisdiction.
Duncan Kennedy (born 1942) was the Carter Professor of General Jurisprudence at Harvard Law School until 2015. Now emeritus, he is best known as one of the founders of the critical legal studies movement in legal thought.
Philosophy of law is a branch of philosophy that examines the nature of law and law's relationship to other systems of norms, especially ethics and political philosophy.[1][2] It asks questions like "What is law?", "What are the criteria for legal validity?", and "What is the relationship between law and morality?" Philosophy of law and jurisprudence are often used interchangeably, though jurisprudence sometimes encompasses forms of reasoning that fit into economics or sociology.[3][4]
Law (article link) is the set of rules and principles (laws) by which a society is governed, through enforcement by governmental authorities.  Law is also the field that concerns the creation and administration of laws, and includes any and all legal systems.
The United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) issues an annual "Patenting by Organizations" report on the agency's web site. This report contains a ranked list of all US and international organizations which received 40 or more US patents in the year the report was issued.
The Mitsubishi Group (三菱グループ, Mitsubishi Gurūpu, informally known as the Mitsubishi Keiretsu) is a group of autonomous Japanese multinational companies in a variety of industries.
The expressways (高速道路, kōsoku-dōro, lit. "high-speed road", also jidōsha-dō (自動車道), lit. "automobile road", "freeway", "expressway", or "motorway") of Japan make up a large network of controlled-access toll expressways.
The Hong Kong Strategic Route and Exit Number System (Chinese: 香港主要幹線及出口編號系統) is a system adopted by the Transport Department of the Hong Kong Government to organise the major roads in the territory into routes 1 to 10 for the convenience of drivers. When the system was implemented in 2004, the government promoted it with a major public campaign, including the slogan "Remember the Numbers; Make Driving Easier" (Chinese: 認路記號碼，唔使路路查).
A dependent territory, dependent area, or dependency (sometimes referred as an external territory) is a territory that does not possess full political independence or sovereignty as a sovereign state, yet remains politically outside the controlling state's integral area.
This is a list of countries by the United Nations geoscheme, including 193 UN member states, 2 UN observer states (the Holy See and Palestine), 2 states in free association with New Zealand (the Cook Islands and Niue), and 50 non-sovereign dependencies/territories, as well as Western Sahara (a territory whose sovereignty is disputed) and Antarctica.
The United Nations Statistics Division (UNSD), formerly the United Nations Statistical Office,[1] serves under the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA) as the central mechanism within the Secretariat of the United Nations to supply the statistical needs and coordinating activities of the global statistical system. The Division is overseen by the United Nations Statistical Commission, established in 1947, as the apex entity of the global statistical system and highest decision making body for coordinating international statistical activities. It brings together the Chief Statisticians from member states from around the world.
The Committee for the Coordination of Statistical Activities (CCSA)[1] is composed of international and supranational organisations, whose mandate includes the provision of statistics. The CCSA promotes inter-agency coordination and cooperation on statistical programmes and consistency in statistical practices and development. As a forum of committed members, the CCSA fosters good practices in the statistical activities of international and supranational organisations, in accordance with the principles governing international statistical activities.[2] The members of the CCSA contribute actively to the development of a coordinated global statistical system producing and disseminating high-quality statistics.
The following is a list of national and international statistical services.
The Instituto Nacional de Estadística (INE, Statistics National Institute) is the main public statistical body of the Venezuelan Government, being the central entity of the National Statistical System and is in charge of the systematization and publication of statistical data in the Venezuelan territory.[1][2]
The Cabinet of Ministers of Venezuela (Spanish: Gabinete de Ministros de Venezuela is one of the bodies that make up the Venezuelan executive in that country's presidential system, alongside the Council of Ministers (Spanish: Consejo de Ministros).[1] The Cabinet is headed by the President of Venezuela, and his corresponding Vice President. The purpose of the ministries is to create, adopt, follow and evaluate policies, strategies, programs and projects in accordance with the constitution and the laws of the Republic.[2]
The Cabinet of Uruguay  is part of the executive branch of the Government of Uruguay. It is composed of thirteen cabinet ministers. Each is appointed by the President of Uruguay, and serves as the head of a particular executive department.[1][2] It meets on Monday mornings at the Executive Tower of Montevideo, but sometimes meets at the Suarez Residence or at the Anchorena Presidential Estate.
The Cabinet of Ministers in Suriname is appointed by the President of Suriname.
Supreme Court of the RepublicPresident Elvia Barrios
The Cabinet of Paraguay is composed of twelve cabinet ministers. Each is appointed by the President of Paraguay, and serves as the head of a particular executive department.[1]
The Cabinet of the Cooperative Republic of Guyana is a principal component of the executive branch of the government of Guyana. Established by Article 106 of the Constitution of Guyana, the Cabinet consists of the President of Guyana, the Prime Minister, the Vice Presidents (if any additional Vice Presidents are appointed), and the Ministers appointed by the President. The Cabinet is tasked with aiding and advising the President as it relates to the general control and direction of the government. While the Cabinet is appointed by the President, it is also collectively responsible to Parliament.[1]
The Cabinet of Ecuador, officially: Cabinet of the Citizens Revolution (Spanish: Gabinete de la Revolución Ciudadana), is part of the executive branch of the Ecuadorian government, consisting of the heads of the variable number of government ministries.[1] The cabinet is appointed by the President.

The Ministers of State of Chile (Spanish: Ministros de Estado de Chile), according to the Chilean constitution, are the direct and immediate collaborators of the President of the Republic in the government and the administration of the state,[1] and in such, they are responsible for the handling of their respective Ministry (Ministerio), in accordance with the policies and instructions that it imparts. The president can appoint and remove ministers freely, and each reports to directly to the president.
Recent elections
The Ministries of the Argentine Republic, which form the cabinet, currently consist of sixteen ministries under a ministerial chief of staff.[1] The ministers are appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the president.[1] The current organization derives from the constitutional revision of 1994,[1] and is governed by "The Law on Ministries".[2]
The Argentine National Gendarmerie (Spanish: Gendarmería Nacional Argentina, GNA) is the national gendarmerie force and corps of border guards of the Argentine Republic. It has a strength of 70,000.
Bundesgrenzschutz (BGS; English: Federal Border Guard) is the former name of the German Bundespolizei (Federal Police). Established on 16 March 1951 as a subordinate agency of the Federal Ministry of the Interior, the BGS originally was primarily focused on protecting the West German borders. During their early days, BGS units had military structures, training and equipment. The law enforcement officers legally had military combatant status until 1994. A major part of the early BGS personnel joined the newly founded German Armed Forces (Bundeswehr) in 1956 and thus significantly contributed to West Germany's rearmament. The BGS was renamed to Bundespolizei on 1 July 2005. The change of name did not have any effect on the legal status or competencies of the agency, but rather reflects its transition to a multi-faceted police agency with control over border, railway and air security.
The Border and Immigration Agency (BIA) was an executive agency of the British Home Office, created on 1 April 2007 and replaced on 1 April 2008. The agency replaced the Immigration and Nationality Directorate, assuming its responsibilities for managing immigration control in the United Kingdom. The BIA also considered applications for visas to enter the UK, permission to remain, citizenship, asylum and in-country enforcement of immigration law. The headquarters were located in Croydon.
The Immigration and Nationality Directorate (IND) was part of the Home Office, a department of the United Kingdom government. The department had its headquarters in Croydon, South London, where it occupied thirteen buildings. The IND was responsible for inward migration to the United Kingdom, asylum applications and the recognition of refugees, nationality and citizenship and the removal and deportation of immigration offenders. The Immigration and Nationality Directorate was replaced by the Border and Immigration Agency on 1 April 2007, which was in turn subsumed into the UK Border Agency on 1 April 2008 and replaced by UK Visas and Immigration in 2013.
Sir William Alexander Jeffrey, KCB (born 28 February 1948) is a former senior British civil servant, who retired in the autumn of 2010.[1]
The Permanent Under-Secretary of State for Defence,[1][2] also called the Permanent Secretary to the Ministry of Defence,[3][4] is the permanent secretary at the Ministry of Defence. The office holder is the government's principal civilian adviser on Defence matters.[5] The office holder is a member of the Defence Council and the Defence Board.[6] They are the MOD Principal Accounting Officer,[5] and are called to give evidence to the Defence Select Committee.[7]
The Royal Air Force Museum is a museum dedicated to the Royal Air Force in the United Kingdom. The museum is a non-departmental public body of the Ministry of Defence[1] and is a registered charity.
In the United Kingdom, non-departmental public body (NDPB) is a classification applied by the Cabinet Office, Treasury, the Scottish Government and the Northern Ireland Executive to public sector organisations that have a role in the process of national government but are not part of a government department.[1] NDPBs carry out their work largely independently from ministers and are accountable to the public through Parliament; however, ministers are responsible for the independence, effectiveness and efficiency of non-departmental public bodies in their portfolio.[2]
Charles III
The UK Statistics Authority (UKSA, Welsh: Awdurdod Ystadegau'r DU) is a non-ministerial government department of the Government of the United Kingdom responsible for oversight of the Office for National Statistics, maintaining a national code of practice for official statistics, and accrediting statistics that comply with the Code as National Statistics. UKSA was established on 1 April 2008 by the Statistics and Registration Service Act 2007, and is directly accountable to the Parliament of the United Kingdom.
The UK Payments Administration Ltd (UKPA) is a United Kingdom service company that provides people, facilities and expertise to the UK payments industry.
The Cheque and Credit Clearing Company Limited (C&CCC) is a UK membership-based industry body whose 11 members are the UK clearing banks. The company has managed the cheque clearing system in England and Wales since 1985, in all of Great Britain since 1996 when it took over responsibility for managing the Scottish cheque clearing as well, and in the whole of the United Kingdom since the introduction of the Image Clearing System in 2019.[1]
The Payments Council was an organisation of financial institutions in the United Kingdom, which set strategy for UK payment mechanisms from 2007 until 2015.[1]
Cost–benefit analysis (CBA), sometimes also called benefit–cost analysis, is a systematic approach to estimating the strengths and weaknesses of alternatives. It is used to determine options which provide the best approach to achieving benefits while preserving savings in, for example, transactions, activities, and functional business requirements.[1] A CBA may be used to compare completed or potential courses of action, and to estimate or evaluate the value against the cost of a decision, project, or policy. It is commonly used to evaluate business or policy decisions (particularly public policy), commercial transactions, and project investments. For example, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission must conduct cost-benefit analyses before instituting regulations or deregulations.[2]: 6
Political economy is the study of how economic systems (e.g. markets and national economies) and political systems (e.g. law, institutions, government) are linked.[1][2][3][4] Widely studied phenomena within the discipline are systems such as labour markets and financial markets, as well as  phenomena such as growth, distribution, inequality, and trade, and how these are shaped by institutions, laws, and government policy. Originating in the 16th century, it is the precursor to the modern discipline of economics.[5][6] Political economy in its modern form is considered an interdisciplinary field, drawing on theory from both political science and modern economics.[4]
Humanities are academic disciplines that study aspects of human society and culture. In the Renaissance, the term contrasted with divinity and referred to what is now called classics, the main area of secular study in universities at the time. Today, the humanities are more frequently defined as any fields of study outside of natural sciences, social sciences, formal sciences (like mathematics) and applied sciences (or professional training).[1] They use methods that are primarily critical, or speculative, and have a significant historical element[2]—as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences;[2] yet, unlike the sciences, there is no general history of humanities as a distinct discipline in its own right.[further explanation needed][3]
The McCloskey critique refers to a critique of post-1940s "official modernist" methodology in economics, inherited from logical positivism in philosophy.  The critique maintains that the methodology neglects how economics can be done, is done, and should be done to advance the subject. Its recommendations include use of good rhetorical devices for "disciplined conversation."[1]
Bastiaan Cornelis van Fraassen (/væn ˈfrɑːsən/; born 1941) is a Dutch-American philosopher noted for his contributions to philosophy of science, epistemology and formal logic. He is a Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at San Francisco State University and the McCosh Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Princeton University.
Ian MacDougall Hacking CC FRSC FBA (born February 18, 1936) is a Canadian philosopher specializing in the philosophy of science. Throughout his career, he has won numerous awards, such as the Killam Prize for the Humanities and the Balzan Prize, and been a member of many prestigious groups, including the Order of Canada, the Royal Society of Canada and the British Academy.
Carl Gustav "Peter" Hempel (January 8, 1905 – November 9, 1997) was a German writer,  philosopher, logician, and epistemologist. He was a major figure in logical empiricism, a 20th-century movement in the philosophy of science. He is especially well known for his articulation of the deductive-nomological model of scientific explanation, which was considered the "standard model" of scientific explanation during the 1950s and 1960s. He is also known for the raven paradox (also known as "Hempel's paradox").[5]
Hans Reichenbach (September 26, 1891 – April 9, 1953) was a leading philosopher of science, educator, and proponent of logical empiricism. He was influential in the areas of science, education, and of logical empiricism. He founded the Gesellschaft für empirische Philosophie (Society for Empirical Philosophy) in Berlin in 1928, also known as the “Berlin Circle”. Carl Gustav Hempel, Richard von Mises, David Hilbert and Kurt Grelling all became members of the Berlin Circle.
Otto Karl Wilhelm Neurath (German: [ˈnɔʏʀaːt]; 10 December 1882 – 22 December 1945) was an Austrian-born philosopher of science, sociologist, and political economist. He was also the inventor of the ISOTYPE method of pictorial statistics and an innovator in museum practice. Before he fled his native country in 1934, Neurath was one of the leading figures of the Vienna Circle.
In scientific visualization and computer graphics, volume rendering is a set of techniques used to display a 2D projection of a 3D discretely sampled data set, typically a 3D scalar field.
Volume Cartography is the name of a computer program for locating and mapping 2-dimensional surfaces within a 3-dimensional object.[1] X-rays can reveal minute details of what is in an object,[2][3] and computer program such as Volume Cartography can organize the images into layers, a process called volume rendering.
Visual analytics is an outgrowth of the fields of information visualization and scientific visualization that focuses on analytical reasoning facilitated by interactive visual interfaces.[1]
Spatial analysis or spatial statistics includes any of the formal techniques  which studies entities using their topological, geometric, or geographic properties. Spatial analysis includes a variety of techniques, many still in their early development, using different analytic approaches and applied in fields as diverse as astronomy, with its studies of the placement of galaxies in the cosmos, to chip fabrication engineering, with its use of "place and route" algorithms to build complex wiring structures. In a more restricted sense, spatial analysis is the technique applied to structures at the human scale, most notably in the analysis of geographic data or transcriptomics data.
A patent application or patent may contain drawings, also called patent drawings, illustrating the invention, some of its embodiments (which are particular implementations or methods of carrying out the invention), or the prior art. The drawings may be required by the law to be in a particular form, and the requirements may vary depending on the jurisdiction.
Neuroimaging is the use of quantitative (computational) techniques to study the structure and function of the central nervous system, developed as an objective way of scientifically studying the healthy human brain in a non-invasive manner. Increasingly it is also being used for quantitative studies of brain disease and psychiatric illness.  Neuroimaging is a highly multidisciplinary research field and is not a medical specialty.
The CHADS2 score and its updated version, the CHA2DS2-VASc score, are clinical prediction rules for estimating the risk of stroke in people with non-rheumatic atrial fibrillation (AF), a common and serious heart arrhythmia associated with thromboembolic stroke. Such a score is used to determine whether or not treatment is required with anticoagulation therapy or antiplatelet therapy,[1] since AF can cause stasis of blood in the upper heart chambers, leading to the formation of a mural thrombus that can dislodge into the blood flow, reach the brain, cut off  supply to the brain, and cause a stroke.
The bibcode (also known as the refcode) is a compact identifier used by several astronomical data systems to uniquely specify literature references.
Springer Science+Business Media, commonly known as Springer, is a German multinational publishing company of books, e-books and peer-reviewed journals in science, humanities, technical and medical (STM) publishing.[1]
Springer Vieweg Verlag (formerly known as Vieweg+Teubner Verlag) is a German publishing company that specializes in books on technical subjects. It is a subsidiary of Springer Science+Business Media.
Ärzte-Zeitung (company name: Ärzte Zeitung Verlags-GmbH: ISSN 0175-5811, ZDB (DE) 604874-2) is a German newspaper for physicians and other medical professionals.[1] The paper was first published on 1 October 1982.[2] It is published by Springer Medizin.[1] The publication's head office is in Neu-Isenburg.[3]
Springer Gabler (formerly Gabler Verlag)[1] is a German publishing house in the fields of economy. It was founded in Wiesbaden in 1929 as Betriebswirtschaftlicher Verlag Doktor Theodor Gabler.
Springer Science+Business Media, commonly known as Springer, is a German multinational publishing company of books, e-books and peer-reviewed journals in science, humanities, technical and medical (STM) publishing.[1]
Scientific American, informally abbreviated SciAm or sometimes SA, is an American popular science magazine. Many famous scientists, including Albert Einstein and Nikola Tesla, have contributed articles to it. In print since 1845, it is the oldest continuously published magazine in the United States. Scientific American is owned by Springer Nature, which in turn is a subsidiary of Holtzbrinck Publishing Group.
Macmillan Education is a publisher of English Language teaching and school curriculum materials. The company is based in London and operates in over 40 countries worldwide.
Birkhäuser was a Swiss publisher founded in 1879 by Emil Birkhäuser. It was acquired by Springer Science+Business Media in 1985. Today it is an imprint used by two companies in unrelated fields:
BioMed Central (BMC) is a United Kingdom-based, for-profit scientific open access publisher that produces over 250 scientific journals. All its journals are published online only. BioMed Central describes itself as the first and largest open access science publisher. It was founded in 2000 and has been owned by Springer, now Springer Nature, since 2008.
Springer Nature or the Springer Nature Group[1][2] is a German-British academic publishing company created by the May 2015 merger of Springer Science+Business Media and Holtzbrinck Publishing Group's Nature Publishing Group, Palgrave Macmillan, and Macmillan Education.[3]
Droemer Knaur is a publishing group based in Munich. The group consists of the book publishers Droemer, Knaur, the Pattloch Publisher and O.W. Barth. Droemer Knaur belongs to the Georg von Holtzbrinck Publishing Group.
The Répertoire International des Sources Musicales (RISM, English International Inventory of Musical Sources, German Internationales Quellenlexikon der Musik) is an international non-profit organization, founded in Paris in 1952, with the aim of comprehensively documenting extant historical sources of music all over the world.[1] It is the largest organization of its kind and the only entity operating globally to document written musical sources. RISM is one of the four bibliographic projects sponsored by the International Musicological Society and the International Association of Music Libraries, Archives and Documentation Centres, the others being Répertoire International de Littérature Musicale (RILM, founded in 1966), Répertoire international d'iconographie musicale (RIdIM, founded in 1971), and Répertoire international de la presse musicale (RIPM, founded in 1980).
Harald Heckmann (born 6 December 1924) is a German musicologist.

The National Library of the Faroe Islands (Faroese: Føroya Landsbókasavn) is the national library for the Faroe Islands, a self-governing country within the Kingdom of Denmark. It is both a public and a research library.
The National Library of Northern Cyprus (Turkish: Millî Kütüphane) is the National Library of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, located in Nicosia. It was founded on November 17, 1958. The collection consists of 229.626 books.[1]
The National Library of Kosovo (Albanian: Biblioteka Kombëtare e Kosovës; Serbian: Народна библиотека Косова, romanized: Narodna biblioteka Kosova) is the highest library institution in Kosovo[a] established by the Assembly and is located in Pristina.
The Vernadsky National Library of Ukraine, VNLU (Ukrainian: Національна бібліотека України імені В.І. Вернадського) is the main academic library and main scientific information centre in Ukraine, one of the world's largest national libraries. Its main building is located in the capital of the country – Kyiv, in the Demiivka neighborhood.
The Institute for the Ukrainian Language (Ukrainian: Інститут української мови) of the NAS of Ukraine is a research organization in Ukraine created to do thorough studying of the Ukrainian language. It is the Ukrainian coordinating center of research issues in the Ukrainian language. An activity of importance to the Institute is to consolidate the Ukrainian language as the official language in the lingual space of Ukraine, to reach the lingual harmony in the life of present-day civil society.
Potebnia Institute of Linguistics is a research institute in Ukraine, which is part of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine department of literature, language, and art studies.  It is focused on linguistic research and studies of linguistic issues. The institute is located in Kyiv.
The Institute of Encyclopaedic Research of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine is a Ukrainian state-supported academic research and publishing organization based in Kуiv (Tereshchenkivs'ka St, 3, Shevchenkivs'kyi, Kyiv), Ukraine. 50°26′39.54″N 30°30′56.91″E﻿ / ﻿50.4443167°N 30.5158083°E﻿ / 50.4443167; 30.5158083Coordinates: 50°26′39.54″N 30°30′56.91″E﻿ / ﻿50.4443167°N 30.5158083°E﻿ / 50.4443167; 30.5158083
The Odesa Archaeological Museum (Ukrainian: Одеський археологічний музей) is one of the oldest archaeological museums in Ukraine. It was founded in 1825; the current museum building was completed in 1883 according to a design by Polish architect Feliks Gąsiorowski.[1][2]
National Science Library (Ukrainian: Львівська національна наукова бібліотека України імені Василя Стефаника) is a national library of Ukraine in the city of Lviv, Ukraine. It also serves as a science and research institute complex of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.
A.Yu. Krymskyi Institute of Oriental Studies (Ukrainian: Інститут сходознавства імені А. Ю. Кримського) is a research institute in Ukraine that is part of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine department of history, philosophy and law and studies languages, histories, philosophies, religions, and cultures of peoples of Asia, Near, Middle and Far East, Northern Africa, and ethnicities of oriental origin that have existed or live on the territory of Ukraine. The institute is located in Kyiv.
Institute of History of Ukraine is a research institute in Ukraine that is part of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine department of history, philosophy and law and studies a wide spectrum of problems in history of Ukraine. The institute is located in Kyiv.
The Institute of Archaeology of the National Academy of Science of Ukraine (Ukrainian: Інститут археології НАН України) is a research institute in Ukraine that is part of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. It is the main institution with the academy that conducts research in the field of studying archaeology and the ancient history of Ukraine. The institute is part of the department of history, philosophy and law of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. The institute's headquarters is located in Obolonskyi District, Kyiv, near the Dnieper embankment.
The Institute for Economics and Forecasting of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, formerly the Institute for Economic Forecasting is a public institution for research in economics and forecasting. The Institute was established by the decree of Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (July 1997, N 772) and the decree of the Presidium of NAS of Ukraine (September 1997, N 298) with the purpose to ensure the elaboration of strategic forecasts and programs of socio-economic development of Ukraine.
The National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine (NASU; Ukrainian: Національна академія наук України, Natsional’na akademiya nauk Ukrayiny, abbr: NAN Ukraine) is a self-governing state-funded organization in Ukraine that is the main center of development of science and technology by coordinating a system of research institutes in the country. It is the main research oriented organization along with the five other academies in Ukraine specialized in various scientific disciplines. NAS Ukraine consists of numerous departments, sections, research institutes, scientific centers and various other supporting scientific organizations.
The Spanish Royal Academy of Sciences (Spanish: Real Academia de Ciencias Exactas, Físicas y Naturales)[1] is an academic institution and learned society that was founded in Madrid in 1847. It is dedicated to the study and research of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, engineering, and related sciences.
The Real Academia Nacional de Farmacia (Spanish: Real Academia Nacional de Farmacia) is located in Madrid, Spain. It was declared Bien de Interés Cultural in 1997.[citation needed]
The Royal Academy of Jurisprudence and Legislation (Spanish: Real Academia de Jurisprudencia y Legislación) is a legal institution based in Madrid. It has a unique position as an independent and privately funded institution led by eminent international jurists mainly in the Hispanic area; its purpose is to promote the knowledge, investigation and debate in the legal area. It is placed in a building declared Cultural Interest Good in 1998.[citation needed]
The Real Academia de Bellas Artes de San Fernando (RABASF; transl. 'Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando'), located on the Calle de Alcalá in the heart of Madrid, currently functions as a museum and gallery. A public law corporation, it is integrated together with other Spanish royal academies in the Instituto de España [es].[1]
The Royal Spanish Academy (Spanish: Real Academia Española, generally abbreviated as RAE) is Spain's official royal institution with a mission to ensure the stability of the Spanish language. It is based in Madrid, Spain, and is affiliated with national language academies in 22 other Hispanophone nations through the Association of Academies of the Spanish Language.[1] The RAE's emblem is a fiery crucible, and its motto is Limpia, fija y da esplendor ("It purifies, it fixes, and it dignifies").[2]
World Central Kitchen (WCK) is a not-for-profit non-governmental organization devoted to providing meals in the wake of natural disasters. Founded in 2010 by chef José Andrés, the organization prepared food in Haiti following its devastating earthquake. Its method of operations is to be a first responder and then to collaborate and galvanize solutions with local chefs to solve the problem of hunger, immediately following a disaster.[1][2]
SOS Children's Villages is an independent, non-governmental, nonprofit international development organization headquartered in Innsbruck, Austria. The organization provides humanitarian and developmental assistance to children in need and protects their interests and rights around the world.[1][2][3][4] Today, SOS Children's Villages is active in 135 countries and territories worldwide.[5][6]
MusicBrainz is a MetaBrainz project that aims to create a collaborative music database that is similar to the freedb project. MusicBrainz was founded in response to the restrictions placed on the Compact Disc Database (CDDB), a database for software applications to look up audio CD information on the Internet. MusicBrainz has expanded its goals to reach beyond a CD metadata (this is information about the performers, artists, songwriters, etc.) storehouse to become a structured online database for music.[4][5]
CiteSeerX (formerly called CiteSeer) is a public search engine and digital library for scientific and academic papers, primarily in the fields of computer and information science.
Wikidata is a collaboratively edited multilingual knowledge graph hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation.[2] It is a common source of open data that Wikimedia projects such as Wikipedia,[3][4] and anyone else, can use under the CC0 public domain license. Wikidata is a wiki powered by the software MediaWiki, and is also powered by the set of knowledge graph MediaWiki extensions known as Wikibase.
Wikipedia for World Heritage refers to the efforts put forth to get Wikipedia listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The idea was originally proposed to the Wikimedia chapter by the Wikimedia Foundation at the 2011 Wikimedia Conference in Berlin.[1][2] An online petition was started at the German Wikipedia on May 23, 2011.[3] The bid is considered to be the first for a digital entity and is expected to be controversial with the list's maintainers who are notably conservative.[2]
Coordinates: 37°47′21″N 122°24′12″W﻿ / ﻿37.78917°N 122.40333°W﻿ / 37.78917; -122.40333
According to the Wikimedia Foundation, the Wikimedia movement is the global community of contributors to the Wikimedia projects.[1][2] This community directly builds and administers the projects.[3] It is committed to using open standards and software.[4]
Wikimedia in India refers to all the Wikipedia and Wikimedia projects which are of special interest to people in India or interested in topics relating to India.
Death and Wikipedia includes all discussions of how Wikipedia editors present death of public figures.
There are various intersections of the LGBTQ+ community and Wikipedia. LGBTQ+ people who edit Wikipedia may face harassment, and Wikipedia content about LGBTQ+ individuals is often vandalized, but various Wikipedia user groups and the Wikimedia Foundation have endorsed campaigns to promote inclusion on Wikipedia, and its availability in nations that otherwise suppress information about LGBTQ+ issues has been praised.
274301 Wikipedia, provisional designation 2008 QH24, is a Vestian asteroid orbiting in the inner region of the asteroid belt, approximately 1 kilometer (0.6 mi) in diameter. It was discovered on 25 August 2008 by astronomers at the Andrushivka Astronomical Observatory in northern Ukraine.[1] The asteroid was named after the online encyclopedia Wikipedia in January 2013.[2]
This is a list of well-known online encyclopedias—i.e., encyclopedias accessible or formerly accessible on the Internet.
Veropedia was a free, advertising-supported online encyclopedia launched in late October 2007. It was taken down in January 2009, pending creation of a new version.
Interpedia was the first-proposed online encyclopedia which would allow anyone to contribute by writing articles and submitting them to the central catalogue of all Interpedia pages.
Enciclopedia Libre Universal en Español (English: Universal Free Encyclopedia in Spanish) is a Spanish-language wiki-based online encyclopedia, released under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License 3.0. It uses the MediaWiki software. It started as a fork of the Spanish Wikipedia.
Wikimedia Enterprise is a commercial product by the Wikimedia Foundation to provide, in a more easily consumable way, the data of the Wikimedia projects, including Wikipedia. It allows customers to retrieve data at large scale and high availabilty through different formats like Web APIs, data snapshots or streams. 
It was first announced in March 2021[1][2] and launched on October 26, 2021.[3][4]
Science information on Wikipedia includes the information that Wikipedia presents about science. There have been critiques of and discussion about the impact and quality of that information, and of the interactions of Wikipedia editors, scientists and public engagement with the information.
The Wikipedia online encyclopedia has, since the late 2000s, served as a popular source for health information for both laypersons and, in many cases, health care practitioners. Health-related articles on Wikipedia are popularly accessed as results from search engines, which frequently deliver links to Wikipedia articles.[1] Independent assessments have been made of the number and demographics of people who seek health information on Wikipedia, the scope of health information on Wikipedia, and the quality of the information on Wikipedia.[2]
Wikiwand, formerly stylized as WikiWand,[2] is a proprietary interface developed for viewing Wikipedia articles.[3] Its interface includes a sidebar menu displaying the table of contents, a navigation bar, personalized links to other languages, new typography, access to previews of linked articles, display advertisements, and sponsored articles.[4] The interface is available on Chrome, Safari and Firefox as well as via Wikiwand's website. Wikiwand shares the users' personal information with Outbrain and other advertisers, as well as various service providers including Amazon, Google and Microsoft.[5]
QRpedia is a mobile Web-based system which uses QR codes to deliver Wikipedia articles to users, in their preferred language.[1][2][3] A typical use is on museum labels, linking to Wikipedia articles about the exhibited object. QR codes can easily be generated to link directly to any Uniform Resource Identifier (URI), but the QRpedia system adds further functionality. It is owned and operated by a subsidiary of Wikimedia UK (WMUK).
The Long Lane is the medieval and modern name of the Roman road that ran almost due westwards from Derventio, the Roman fort and vicus in the suburbs of modern Derby, through Derbyshire to Rocester (where there was a Roman settlement) and Draycott in the Moors. From that point onwards the same road – no longer called "The Long Lane" – continued through Staffordshire to Chesterton near Newcastle-under-Lyme. Its destination was Middlewich (Latin Salinae), from which the important city of Chester (Latin Deva) was in easy reach.
The Street is the medieval name of the Roman road that ran across the high limestone plateau of central Derbyshire from the spa town of Buxton (Latin Aquae Arnemetiae) southeast towards modern Derby. The line of the road can be traced from surviving features, confirmed by archaeology, from Buxton as far as Longcliffe just north of Brassington. It is believed that from Brassington the road ran eastwards to Wirksworth and there joined another road which crossed the Derwent at Milford and ran on the east bank of the Derwent and can be traced to the northern suburbs of Derby to Little Chester, the site of the Roman settlement of Derventio. The 1723 map of Brassington Moor shows The Street road from Buxton through Pikehall up to the Upper Harborough Field Gate, leading onto Manystones Lane & Brassington Lane towards Wirksworth (probable site of the Roman town Lutudarum). In records from 1613 the road from Brassington to Wirksworth is called 'Highe Streete'.[1][2]
The King of Rome was a successful racing pigeon, winning a 1,001-mile (1,611 km) race from Rome, Italy, to England, in 1913. Bred and trained in England, it was owned by Charlie Hudson of Derby. It set a new long-distance record for a racing pigeon of England.
John Farey Sr. (24 September 1766 – 6 January 1826) was an English geologist and writer best known for Farey sequence, a mathematical construct that is named after him.
Geology Today is a bimonthly peer-reviewed scientific journal published by  Wiley on behalf of the Geologists' Association and the Geological Society of London. The editor-in-chief is Peter Doyle (Geological Society of London). The journal covers all aspects of the Earth sciences.
Geology (from Ancient Greek  γῆ (gê) 'earth', and  λoγία (-logía) 'study of, discourse')[1][2] is a branch of natural science concerned with Earth and other astronomical objects, the rocks of which it is composed, and the processes by which they change over time. Modern geology significantly overlaps all other Earth sciences, including hydrology. It is integrated with Earth system science and planetary science.
Taphonomy is the study of how organisms decay and become fossilized or preserved in the paleontological record. The term taphonomy (from Greek táphos, τάφος 'burial' and nomos, νόμος 'law') was introduced to paleontology in 1940[1] by Soviet scientist Ivan Efremov to describe the study of the transition of remains, parts, or products of organisms from the biosphere to the lithosphere.[2][3]
The Hadean ( /heɪˈdiːən, ˈheɪdiən/ hay-DEE-ən, HAY-dee-ən) is a geologic eon of Earth history preceding the Archean. On Earth, the Hadean began with the planet's formation about 4.54 billion years ago[3][4] (although the start of the Hadean is defined as the age of the oldest solid material in the Solar System, found in some meteorites, about 4.567 billion years old).[5] The Hadean ended, as defined by the International Commission on Stratigraphy (ICS), 4 billion years ago.[6]
Gradstein et al., 2012
Siderian Period, 2630–2420
Gradstein et al., 2012
Pongolan Period, 3020–2780 Ma
Gradstein et al., 2012
Isuan Period, 3810–3490 Ma
The Eoarchean ( /ˌiːoʊ.ɑːrˈkiːən/; also spelled Eoarchaean) is the first era of the Archean Eon of the geologic record. It spans 400 million years, from the end of the Hadean Eon 4 billion years ago (4000 Mya) to the start of the Paleoarchean Era 3600 Mya. The beginnings of life on Earth have been dated to this era and evidence of cyanobacteria date to 3500 Mya, comparatively shortly after the Eoarchean. At that time, the atmosphere was without oxygen and the pressure values ranged from 10 to 100 bar (around 10 to 100 times the atmospheric pressure today).[2][3][4]
The Statherian Period ( /stəˈθɪəriən/; Ancient Greek: σταθερός, romanized: statherós, meaning "stable, firm") is the final geologic period in the Paleoproterozoic Era and lasted from 1800 Mya to 1600 Mya (million years ago). Instead of being based on stratigraphy, these dates are defined chronometrically.[2][3]
Geochronology is the science of determining the age of rocks, fossils, and sediments using signatures inherent in the rocks themselves. Absolute geochronology can be accomplished through radioactive isotopes, whereas relative geochronology is provided by tools such as paleomagnetism and stable isotope ratios. By combining multiple geochronological (and biostratigraphic) indicators the precision of the recovered age can be improved.
The ASPRO chronology is a nine-period dating system of the ancient Near East used by the Maison de l'Orient et de la Méditerranée for archaeological sites aged between 14,000 and 5,700 BP.[1]
A terminus post quem ('limit after which', sometimes abbreviated TPQ) and terminus ante quem ('limit before which', abbreviated TAQ) specify the known limits of dating for events or items.[1][2][3]
Floruit (/ˈflɔːrju.ɪt/; abbreviated fl. or occasionally flor.; from Latin for "flourished") denotes a date or period during which a person was known to have been alive or active.[1][2] In English, the unabbreviated word may also be used as a noun indicating the time when someone flourished.[1]
A synchronoptic view is a graphic display of a number of entities as they proceed through time. A synchronoptic view can be used for many purposes, but is best suited to the visual display of history. A number of related timelines can be drawn on a single chart, showing which events and lives are contemporary and which are unconnected.
The new chronology is a pseudohistorical conspiracy theory proposed by Anatoly Fomenko who argues that events of antiquity generally attributed to the ancient civilizations of Rome, Greece and Egypt actually occurred during the Middle Ages, more than a thousand years later.
A chronicle (Latin: chronica, from Greek χρονικά chroniká, from χρόνος, chrónos – "time") is a historical account of events arranged in chronological order, as in a timeline. Typically, equal weight is given for historically important events and local events, the purpose being the recording of events that occurred, seen from the perspective of the chronicler.  A chronicle which traces world history is a universal chronicle. This is in contrast to a narrative or history, in which an author chooses events to interpret and analyze and excludes those the author does not consider important or relevant.
Glottochronology (from Attic Greek γλῶττα tongue, language and χρόνος time) is the part of lexicostatistics which involves comparative linguistics and deals with the chronological relationship between languages.[1]: 131
Stratigraphy is a key concept to modern archaeological theory and practice. Modern excavation techniques are based on stratigraphic principles. The concept derives from the geological use of the idea that sedimentation takes place according to uniform principles.
When archaeological finds are below the surface of the ground (as is most commonly the case), the identification of the context of each find is vital in enabling the archaeologist to draw conclusions about the site and about the nature and date of its occupation. It is the archaeologist's role to attempt to discover what contexts exist and how they came to be created. Archaeological stratification or sequence is the dynamic superimposition of single units of stratigraphy, or contexts.
In archaeology, seriation  is a relative dating method in which assemblages or artifacts from numerous sites in the same culture are placed in chronological order. Where absolute dating methods, such as radio carbon, cannot be applied, archaeologists have to use relative dating methods to date archaeological finds and features. Seriation is a standard method of dating in archaeology.  It can be used to date stone tools, pottery fragments, and other artifacts. In Europe, it has been used frequently to reconstruct the  chronological sequence of graves in a cemetery (e.g. Jørgensen 1992;[1]  Müssemeier, Nieveler et al. 2003[2]).
Obsidian hydration dating (OHD) is a geochemical method of determining age in either absolute or relative terms of an artifact made of obsidian.
Nitrogen dating is a form of relative dating which relies on the reliable breakdown and release of   amino acids from bone samples to estimate the age of the object.[1] For human bones, the assumption of about 5% nitrogen in the bone, mostly in the form of   collagen, allows fairly consistent dating techniques.[2]
Fluorine absorption dating is a method used to determine the amount of time an object has been underground.
Relative dating is the science of determining the relative order of past events (i.e., the age of an object in comparison to another), without necessarily determining their absolute age (i.e., estimated age). In geology, rock or superficial deposits, fossils and lithologies can be used to correlate one stratigraphic column with another. Prior to the discovery of radiometric dating in the early 20th century, which provided a means of absolute dating, archaeologists and geologists used relative dating to determine ages of materials. Though relative dating can only determine the sequential order in which a series of events occurred, not when they occurred, it remains a useful technique. Relative dating by biostratigraphy is the preferred method in paleontology and is, in some respects, more accurate.[1] The Law of Superposition, which states that older layers will be deeper in a site than more recent layers, was the summary outcome of 'relative dating' as observed in geology from the 17th century to the early 20th century.
Thermoluminescence dating (TL) is the determination, by means of measuring the accumulated radiation dose, of the time elapsed since material containing crystalline minerals was either heated (lava, ceramics) or exposed to sunlight (sediments). As a crystalline material is heated during measurements, the process of  thermoluminescence starts. Thermoluminescence emits a weak light signal that is proportional to the radiation dose absorbed by the material. It is a type of luminescence dating.
Luminescence dating refers to a group of methods of determining how long ago mineral grains were last exposed to sunlight or sufficient heating. It is useful to geologists and archaeologists who want to know when such an event occurred. It uses various methods to stimulate and measure luminescence.
Tephrochronology is a geochronological technique that uses discrete layers of tephra—volcanic ash from a single eruption—to create a chronological framework in which paleoenvironmental or archaeological records can be placed. Such an established event provides a "tephra horizon". The premise of the technique is that each volcanic event produces ash with a unique chemical "fingerprint" that allows the deposit to be identified across the area affected by fallout. Thus, once the volcanic event has been independently dated, the tephra horizon will act as time marker.
Uranium–lead dating, abbreviated U–Pb dating, is one of the oldest[1] and most refined of the radiometric dating schemes. It can be used to date rocks that formed and crystallised from about 1 million years to over 4.5 billion years ago with routine precisions in the 0.1–1 percent range.[2][3]
Radiocarbon dating (also referred to as carbon dating or carbon-14 dating) is a method for determining the age of an object containing organic material by using the properties of radiocarbon, a radioactive isotope of carbon.
Potassium–argon dating, abbreviated K–Ar dating, is a radiometric dating method used in geochronology and archaeology. It is based on measurement of the product of the radioactive decay of an isotope of potassium (K) into argon (Ar). Potassium is a common element found in many materials, such as feldspars, micas, clay minerals, tephra, and evaporites. In these materials, the decay product 40Ar is able to escape the liquid (molten) rock, but starts to accumulate when the rock solidifies (recrystallizes). The amount of argon sublimation that occurs is a function of the purity of the sample, the composition of the mother material, and a number of other factors. These factors introduce error limits on the upper and lower bounds of dating, so that the final determination of age is reliant on the environmental factors during formation, melting, and exposure to decreased pressure or open air. Time since recrystallization is calculated by measuring the ratio of the amount of 40Ar accumulated to the amount of 40K remaining. The long half-life of 40K allows the method to be used to calculate the absolute age of samples older than a few thousand years.[1]
The National Association of Geoscience Teachers (NAGT) is a North American organization that seeks to foster improvement in the teaching of the earth sciences at all levels of formal and informal instruction, to emphasize the cultural significance of the earth sciences, and to disseminate knowledge in this field to the general public.[1]
K–12,[a] from kindergarten to 12th grade, is an English expression that indicates the range of years of publicly supported primary and secondary education found in the United States and Canada, which is similar to publicly supported school grades before tertiary education in several other countries, such as Afghanistan, Australia, Canada, China, Ecuador, Egypt, India, Iran, the Philippines, South Korea, and Turkey.[1]
An educational institution is a place where people of different ages gain an education, including preschools, childcare, primary-elementary schools, secondary-high schools, and universities.  They provide a large variety of learning environments and learning spaces.[1][2]
The University of the Antilles (French: Université des Antilles), also known in English as the University of the French Antilles, is a French public university, located in the French West Indies.
Coordinates: 16°15′N 61°35′W﻿ / ﻿16.250°N 61.583°W﻿ / 16.250; -61.583
MusicBrainz is a MetaBrainz project that aims to create a collaborative music database that is similar to the freedb project. MusicBrainz was founded in response to the restrictions placed on the Compact Disc Database (CDDB), a database for software applications to look up audio CD information on the Internet. MusicBrainz has expanded its goals to reach beyond a CD metadata (this is information about the performers, artists, songwriters, etc.) storehouse to become a structured online database for music.[4][5]
Freedb was a database of compact disc track listings, where all the content was under the GNU General Public License. To look up CD information over the Internet, a client program calculated a hash function from the CD table of contents and used it as a disc ID to query the database. If the disc was in the database, the client was able to retrieve and display the artist, album title, track list and some additional information.
MusicBrainz is a MetaBrainz project that aims to create a collaborative music database that is similar to the freedb project. MusicBrainz was founded in response to the restrictions placed on the Compact Disc Database (CDDB), a database for software applications to look up audio CD information on the Internet. MusicBrainz has expanded its goals to reach beyond a CD metadata (this is information about the performers, artists, songwriters, etc.) storehouse to become a structured online database for music.[4][5]
Sound Juicer is the official CD ripper program of GNOME. It is based on GTK, GStreamer, and libburnia for reading and writing optical discs.[2] It can extract audio tracks from optical audio discs[3] and convert them into audio files that a personal computer or digital audio player can play. It supports ripping to any audio codec supported by a GStreamer plugin, such as Opus, MP3, Ogg Vorbis, FLAC and uncompressed PCM formats. Versions after 2.12 implement CD playing capability. Last versions produce lossy formats with default GStreamer settings.
Multimedia  is a form of communication that uses a combination of different content forms such as text, audio, images, animations, or video into a single interactive presentation, in contrast to traditional mass media, such as printed material or audio recordings, which features little to no interaction between users. Popular examples of multimedia include video podcasts, audio slideshows and animated videos. Multimedia also contains the principles and application of effective interactive communication such as the building blocks of software, hardware, and other technologies. The five main building blocks of multimedia are text, image, audio, video, and animation.[1]
Radio-frequency (RF) engineering is a subset of electronic engineering involving the application of transmission line, waveguide, antenna and electromagnetic field principles to the design and application of devices that produce or use signals within the radio band, the frequency range of about 20 kHz up to 300 GHz.[1][2][3]
This glossary of structural engineering terms pertains specifically to structural engineering and its sub-disciplines. Please see glossary of engineering for a broad overview of the major concepts of engineering.
This glossary of virology is a list of definitions of terms and concepts used in virology, the study of viruses, particularly in the description of viruses and their actions. Related fields include microbiology, molecular biology, and genetics.
Virosphere (virus diversity, virus world, global virosphere) is the viral part of the biosphere, namely the pool of viruses in all hosts and all environments on planet earth.[1]
Virome refers to the assemblage of viruses[1][2] that is often investigated and described by metagenomic sequencing of viral nucleic acids [3] that are found associated with a particular ecosystem, organism or holobiont. The word is frequently used to describe environmental viral shotgun metagenomes. Viruses, including bacteriophages, are found in all environments, and studies of the virome have provided insights into nutrient cycling,[4][5] development of immunity,[6] and a major source of genes through lysogenic conversion.[7]
A transmissible cancer is a cancer cell or cluster of cancer cells that can be transferred between individuals without the involvement of an infectious agent, such as an oncovirus.[1][2] The evolution of transmissible cancer has occurred naturally in other animal species, but human cancer transmission is rare.[2]
A transpoviron is a plasmid-like genetic element found in the genomes of giant DNA viruses.[1][2]
Retroposons are repetitive DNA fragments which are inserted into chromosomes after they had been reverse transcribed from any RNA molecule.
Tandem repeats occur in DNA when a pattern of one or more nucleotides is repeated and the repetitions are directly adjacent to each other.[1] Several protein domains also form tandem repeats within their amino acid primary structure, such as armadillo repeats. However, in proteins, perfect tandem repeats are unlikely in most in vivo proteins, and most known repeats are in proteins which have been designed.[2]
Spiegelman's Monster is the name given to an RNA chain of only 218 nucleotides that is able to be reproduced by the RNA replication enzyme RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, also called RNA replicase.  It is named after its creator, Sol Spiegelman, of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign who first described it in 1965.
Ribozymes (ribonucleic acid enzymes) are RNA molecules that have the ability to catalyze specific biochemical reactions, including RNA splicing in gene expression, similar to the action of protein enzymes. The 1982 discovery of ribozymes demonstrated that RNA can be both genetic material (like DNA) and a biological catalyst (like protein enzymes), and contributed to the RNA world hypothesis, which suggests that RNA may have been important in the evolution of prebiotic self-replicating systems.[1]
A reverse transcriptase (RT) is an enzyme used to generate complementary DNA (cDNA) from an RNA template, a process termed reverse transcription. Reverse transcriptases are used by viruses such as HIV and hepatitis B to replicate their genomes, by  retrotransposon mobile genetic elements to proliferate within the host genome, and by eukaryotic cells to extend the telomeres at the ends of their linear chromosomes. Contrary to a widely held belief, the process does not violate the flows of genetic information as described by the classical central dogma, as transfers of information from RNA to DNA are explicitly held possible.[2][3][4]
Histidine kinases (HK) are multifunctional, and in non-animal kingdoms, typically transmembrane, proteins of the transferase class of enzymes that play a role in signal transduction across the cellular membrane.[1]  The vast majority of HKs are homodimers that exhibit autokinase, phosphotransfer, and phosphatase activity. HKs can act as cellular receptors for signaling molecules in a way analogous to tyrosine kinase receptors (RTK). Multifunctional receptor molecules such as HKs and RTKs typically have portions on the outside of the cell (extracellular domain) that bind to hormone- or growth factor-like molecules, portions that span the cell membrane (transmembrane domain), and portions within the cell (intracellular domain) that contain the enzymatic activity. In addition to kinase activity, the intracellular domains typically have regions that bind to a secondary effector molecule or complex of molecules that further propagate signal transduction within the cell. Distinct from other classes of protein kinases, HKs are usually parts of a two-component signal transduction mechanisms in which HK transfers a phosphate group from ATP to a histidine residue within the kinase, and then to an aspartate residue on the receiver domain of a response regulator protein (or sometimes on the kinase itself). More recently, the widespread existence of protein histidine phosphorylation distinct from that of two-component histidine kinases has been recognised in human cells.[2][3] In marked contrast to Ser, Thr and Tyr phosphorylation, the analysis of phosphorylated Histidine using standard biochemical and mass spectrometric approaches is much more challenging,[4][5] and special procedures and separation techniques are required for their preservation alongside classical Ser, Thr and Tyr phosphorylation on proteins isolated from human cells.[6]
This list contains a list of  sub-classes for the seventh group of Enzyme Commission numbers, EC 7, translocases, placed in numerical order as determined by the Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.  All official information is tabulated at the website of the committee.[1] The database is developed and maintained by Andrew McDonald.[2]
Translocase is a general term for a protein that assists in moving another molecule, usually across a cell membrane. These enzymes catalyze the movement of ions or molecules across membranes or their separation within membranes. The reaction is designated as a transfer from “side 1” to “side 2” because the designations “in” and “out”, which had previously been used, can be ambiguous.[1] Translocases are the most common secretion system in Gram positive bacteria.
This list contains a list of EC numbers for the sixth group, EC 6, ligases, placed in numerical order as determined by the Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. All official information is tabulated at the website of the committee.[1] The database is developed and maintained by Andrew McDonald.[2]
Cobalt chelatase (EC 6.6.1.2) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction
This list contains a list of EC numbers for the fifth group, EC 5, isomerases, placed in numerical order as determined by the Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. All official information is tabulated at the website of the committee.[1] The database is developed and maintained by Andrew McDonald.[2]
Topoisomerase IV is one of two Type II topoisomerases in bacteria, the other being DNA gyrase. Like gyrase, topoisomerase IV is able to pass one double-strand of DNA through another double-strand of DNA, thereby changing the linking number of DNA by two in each enzymatic step. Both share a hetero-4-mer structure formed by a symmetric homodimer of A/B heterodimers, usually named ParC and ParE.
Isomerases are a general class of enzymes that convert a molecule from one isomer to another. Isomerases facilitate intramolecular rearrangements in which bonds are broken and formed. The general form of such a reaction is as follows:
DNA gyrase, or simply gyrase, is an enzyme within the class of topoisomerase and is a subclass of Type II topoisomerases[1] that reduces topological strain in an ATP dependent manner while double-stranded DNA is being unwound by elongating RNA-polymerase[2] or by helicase in front of the progressing replication fork.[3][4] The enzyme causes negative supercoiling of the DNA or relaxes positive supercoils. It does so by looping the template so as to form a crossing, then cutting one of the double helices and passing the other through it before releasing the break, changing the linking number by two in each enzymatic step. This process occurs in bacteria, whose single circular DNA is cut by DNA gyrase and the two ends are then twisted around each other to form supercoils. Gyrase is also found in eukaryotic plastids: it has been found in the apicoplast of the malarial parasite Plasmodium falciparum[5][6] and in chloroplasts of several plants.[7] Bacterial DNA gyrase is the target of many antibiotics, including nalidixic acid, novobiocin, albicidin, and ciprofloxacin.
This list contains a list of EC numbers for the fourth group, EC 4, lyases, placed in numerical order as determined by the Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. All official information is tabulated at the website of the committee.[1] The database is developed and maintained by Andrew McDonald.[2]
The enzyme FAD-AMP lyase (cyclizing) (EC 4.6.1.15) catalyzes the reaction
In biochemistry, a lyase is an enzyme that catalyzes the breaking (an elimination reaction) of various chemical bonds by means other than hydrolysis (a substitution reaction) and oxidation, often forming a new double bond or a new ring structure.[1] The reverse reaction is also possible (called a Michael reaction). For example, an enzyme that catalyzed this reaction would be a lyase:
The enzyme glycosylphosphatidylinositol diacylglycerol-lyase (EC 4.6.1.14)  catalyzes the reaction
This list contains a list of EC numbers for the third group, EC 3, hydrolases, placed in numerical order as determined by the Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology. All official information is tabulated at the website of the committee.[1] The database is developed and maintained by Andrew McDonald.[2]
2HZP, 3E9K
Hydrolase is a class of enzyme that commonly perform as biochemical catalysts that use water to break a chemical bond, which typically results in dividing a larger molecule into smaller molecules. Some common examples of hydrolase enzymes are esterases including lipases, phosphatases, glycosidases, peptidases, and nucleosidases.
1HYO, 1QCN, 1QCO, 1QQJ, 2HZY
This list contains a list of EC numbers for the second group, EC 2, transferases, placed in numerical order as determined by the Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.  All official information is tabulated at the website of the committee.[1] The database is developed and maintained by Andrew McDonald.[2]
In enzymology, a L-seryl-tRNASec selenium transferase (EC 2.9.1.1) is an enzyme that catalyzes the chemical reaction
A transferase is any one of a class of enzymes that catalyse the transfer of specific functional groups (e.g. a methyl or glycosyl group) from one molecule (called the donor) to another (called the acceptor).[2]  They are involved in hundreds of different biochemical pathways throughout biology, and are integral to some of life's most important processes.
A selenotransferase is a transferase enzyme that act upon atoms of selenium.[1][2]
This list contains a list of EC numbers for the first group, EC 1, oxidoreductases, placed in numerical order as determined by the Nomenclature Committee of the International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology.  All official information is tabulated at the website of the committee.[1] The database is developed and maintained by Andrew McDonald.[2]
Dichlorochromopyrrolate synthase (EC 1.21.3.9, RebD, dichlorochromopyrrolic acid synthase) is an enzyme with systematic name 2-imino-3-(7-chloroindol-3-yl)propanoate ammonia-lyase (dichlorochromopyrrolate-forming).[1][2] This enzyme catalyses the following chemical reaction
In biochemistry, an oxidoreductase is an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of electrons from one molecule, the reductant, also called the electron donor, to another, the oxidant, also called the electron acceptor. This group of enzymes usually utilizes NADP+ or NAD+ as cofactors.[1][2] Transmembrane oxidoreductases create electron transport chains in bacteria, chloroplasts and mitochondria, including respiratory complexes I, II and III. Some others can associate with biological membranes as peripheral membrane proteins or be anchored to the membranes through a single transmembrane helix.[3]
In biochemistry, Michaelis–Menten kinetics is one of the best-known models of enzyme kinetics.[1][2] It is named after German biochemist Leonor Michaelis and Canadian physician Maud Menten.[3] The model takes the form of an equation describing the rate of enzymatic reactions, by relating reaction rate 



v


{\displaystyle v}

 (rate of formation of product, 



[

P

]


{\displaystyle [{\ce {P}}]}

) to 



[

S

]


{\displaystyle [{\ce {S}}]}

, the concentration of a substrate S. Its formula is given by
In biochemistry, the Lineweaver–Burk plot (or double reciprocal plot) is a graphical representation of the Lineweaver–Burk equation of enzyme kinetics, described by Hans Lineweaver and Dean Burk in 1934.[1] The Lineweaver–Burk plot for inhibited enzymes can be compared to no inhibitor to determine how the inhibitor is competing with the enzyme.[2]
In biochemistry, a Hanes–Woolf plot, Hanes plot, or plot of 



a

/

v


{\displaystyle a/v}

 against 



a


{\displaystyle a}

,  is a graphical representation of enzyme kinetics in which the ratio of the initial substrate concentration 



a


{\displaystyle a}

 to the reaction velocity 



v


{\displaystyle v}

 is plotted against 



a


{\displaystyle a}

.  It is based on the rearrangement of the Michaelis–Menten equation shown below:
In biochemistry, an Eadie–Hofstee diagram (more usually called an Eadie–Hofstee plot) is a graphical representation of the Michaelis–Menten equation in enzyme kinetics. It has been known by various different names, including Eadie plot, Hofstee plot and Augustinsson plot. Attribution to Woolf is often omitted, because although Haldane and Stern[1] credited Woolf with the underlying equation, it was just one of the three linear transformations of the Michaelis–Menten equation that they initially introduced. However, Haldane indicated latter that Woolf had indeed found the three linear forms: "In 1932, Dr. Kurt Stern published a German translation of my book "Enzymes", with numerous additions to the English text. On pp. 119-120, I described some graphical methods, stating that they were due to my friend Dr. Barnett Woolf. [...] Woolf pointed out that linear graphs are obtained when 



v


{\displaystyle v}

 is plotted against 



v

x

−
1




{\displaystyle vx^{-1}}

, 




v

−
1




{\displaystyle v^{-1}}

 against 




x

−
1




{\displaystyle x^{-1}}

, or 




v

−
1


x


{\displaystyle v^{-1}x}

 against 



x


{\displaystyle x}

, the first plot being most convenient unless inhibition is being studied."[2]
Enzyme kinetics is the study of the rates of enzyme-catalysed chemical reactions. In enzyme kinetics, the reaction rate is measured and the effects of varying the conditions of the reaction are investigated. Studying an enzyme's kinetics in this way can reveal the catalytic mechanism of this enzyme, its role in metabolism, how its activity is controlled, and how a drug or a modifier (inhibitor or activator) might affect the rate.
A protein family is a group of evolutionarily related proteins. In many cases, a protein family has a corresponding gene family, in which each gene encodes a corresponding protein with a 1:1 relationship. The term "protein family" should not be confused with family as it is used in taxonomy.
A protein superfamily is the largest grouping (clade) of proteins for which common ancestry can be inferred (see homology). Usually this common ancestry is inferred from structural alignment[1] and mechanistic similarity, even if no sequence similarity is evident.[2] Sequence homology can then be deduced even if not apparent (due to low sequence similarity). Superfamilies typically contain several protein families which show sequence similarity within each family. The term protein clan is commonly used for protease and glycosyl hydrolases superfamilies based on the MEROPS and CAZy classification systems.[2][3]
The Enzyme Commission number (EC number) is a numerical classification scheme for enzymes, based on the chemical reactions they catalyze.[1] As a system of enzyme nomenclature, every EC number is associated with a recommended name for the corresponding enzyme-catalyzed reaction.
Enzyme activators are molecules that bind to enzymes and increase their activity. They are the opposite of enzyme inhibitors.[1] These molecules are often involved in the allosteric regulation of enzymes in the control of metabolism. An example of an enzyme activator working in this way is fructose 2,6-bisphosphate, which activates phosphofructokinase 1 and increases the rate of glycolysis in response to the hormone glucagon. In some cases, when a substrate binds to one catalytic subunit of an enzyme, this can trigger an increase in the substrate affinity as well as catalytic activity in the enzyme's other subunits, and thus the substrate acts as an activator.
Cooperativity is a phenomenon displayed by systems involving identical or near-identical elements, which act dependently of each other, relative to a hypothetical standard non-interacting system in which the individual elements are acting independently.[1] One manifestation of this is enzymes or receptors that have multiple binding sites where the affinity of the binding sites for a ligand is apparently increased, positive cooperativity, or decreased, negative cooperativity, upon the binding of a ligand to a binding site.[2] For example, when an oxygen atom binds to one of hemoglobin's four binding sites, the affinity to oxygen of the three remaining available binding sites increases; i.e. oxygen is more likely to bind to a hemoglobin bound to one oxygen than to an unbound hemoglobin. This is referred to as cooperative binding.[3]
A cofactor is a non-protein chemical compound or metallic ion that is required for an enzyme's role as a catalyst (a catalyst is a substance that increases the rate of a chemical reaction). Cofactors can be considered "helper molecules" that assist in biochemical transformations. The rates at which these happen are characterized in an area of study called enzyme kinetics. Cofactors typically differ from ligands in that they often derive their function by remaining bound.
Molybdenum is a chemical element with the symbol Mo and atomic number 42 which is located in period 5 and group 6. The name is from Neo-Latin molybdaenum, which is based on Ancient Greek Μόλυβδος molybdos, meaning lead, since its ores were confused with lead ores.[6] Molybdenum minerals have been known throughout history, but the element was discovered (in the sense of differentiating it as a new entity from the mineral salts of other metals) in 1778 by Carl Wilhelm Scheele. The metal was first isolated in 1781 by Peter Jacob Hjelm.[7]
Molybdenum trisulfide is an inorganic compound with the formula MoS3.[1]
Inorganic chemistry deals with synthesis and behavior of inorganic and organometallic compounds. This field covers chemical compounds that are not carbon-based, which are the subjects of organic chemistry. The distinction between the two disciplines is far from absolute, as there is much overlap in the subdiscipline of organometallic chemistry. It has applications in every aspect of the chemical industry, including catalysis, materials science, pigments, surfactants, coatings, medications, fuels, and agriculture.[1]
A chemical substance is a form of matter having constant chemical composition and characteristic properties.[1][2] Some references add that chemical substance cannot be separated into its constituent elements by physical separation methods, i.e., without breaking chemical bonds.[3] Chemical substances can be simple substances (substances consisting of a single chemical element),[4] chemical compounds, or alloys.
Chemistry is often called the central science because of its role in connecting the physical sciences,[1] which include chemistry, with the life sciences, pharmaceutical sciences and applied sciences such as medicine and engineering.  The nature of this relationship is one of the main topics in the philosophy of chemistry and in scientometrics. The phrase was popularized by its use in a textbook by Theodore L. Brown and H. Eugene LeMay, titled Chemistry: The Central Science, which was first published in 1977, with a thirteenth edition published in 2014.[2]
The discovery of the 118 chemical elements known to exist as of 2023 is presented in chronological order. The elements are listed generally in the order in which each was first defined as the pure element, as the exact date of discovery of most elements cannot be accurately determined. There are plans to synthesize more elements, and it is not known how many elements are possible.
This timeline of chemistry lists important works, discoveries, ideas, inventions, and experiments that significantly changed humanity's understanding of the modern science known as chemistry, defined as the scientific study of the composition of matter and of its interactions.
The history of chemistry represents a time span from ancient history to the present. By 1000 BC, civilizations used technologies that would eventually form the basis of the various branches of chemistry. Examples include the discovery of fire, extracting metals from ores, making pottery and glazes, fermenting beer and wine, extracting chemicals from plants for medicine and perfume, rendering fat into soap, making glass,
and making alloys like bronze.
Polymer science or macromolecular science is a subfield of materials science concerned with polymers, primarily synthetic polymers such as plastics and elastomers.  The field of polymer science includes researchers in multiple disciplines including chemistry, physics, and engineering.
Metallurgy is a domain of materials science and engineering that studies the physical and chemical behavior of metallic elements, their inter-metallic compounds, and their mixtures, which are known as alloys.
Metallurgy encompasses both the science and the technology of metals; that is, the way in which science is applied to the production of metals, and the engineering of metal components used in products for both consumers and manufacturers. Metallurgy is distinct from the craft of metalworking. Metalworking relies on metallurgy in a similar manner to how medicine relies on medical science for technical advancement. A specialist practitioner of metallurgy is known as a metallurgist.
Materials science is an interdisciplinary field of researching and discovering materials. Materials engineering is an engineering field of designing and improving materials, and finding uses for materials in other fields and industries.
Chemical engineering is an engineering field which deals with the study of operation and design of chemical plants as well as methods of improving production. Chemical engineers develop economical commercial processes to convert raw materials into useful products. Chemical engineering uses principles of chemistry, physics, mathematics, biology, and economics to efficiently use, produce, design, transport and transform energy and materials. The work of chemical engineers can range from the utilization of nanotechnology and nanomaterials in the laboratory to large-scale industrial processes that convert chemicals, raw materials, living cells, microorganisms, and energy into useful forms and products. Chemical engineers are involved in many aspects of plant design and operation, including safety and hazard assessments, process design and analysis, modeling, control engineering, chemical reaction engineering, nuclear engineering, biological engineering,  construction specification, and operating instructions.
Biosynthesis is a multi-step, enzyme-catalyzed process where substrates are converted into more complex products in living organisms. In biosynthesis, simple compounds are modified, converted into other compounds, or joined to form macromolecules. This process often consists of metabolic pathways. Some of these biosynthetic pathways are located within a single cellular organelle, while others involve enzymes that are located within multiple cellular organelles. Examples of these biosynthetic pathways include the production of lipid membrane components and nucleotides. Biosynthesis is usually synonymous with anabolism.
Combinatorial chemistry comprises chemical synthetic methods that make it possible to prepare a large number (tens to thousands or even millions) of compounds in a single process. These compound libraries can be made as mixtures, sets of individual compounds or chemical structures generated by computer software.[1] Combinatorial chemistry can be used for the synthesis of small molecules and for peptides.
In chemical synthesis, click chemistry is a class of simple, atom-economy reactions commonly used for joining two molecular entities of choice. Click chemistry is not a single specific reaction, but describes a way of generating products that follow examples in nature, which also generates substances by joining small modular units. In many applications, click reactions join a biomolecule and a reporter molecule. Click chemistry is not limited to biological conditions: the concept of a "click" reaction has been used in chemoproteomic, pharmacological, and various biomimetic applications. However, they have been made notably useful in the detection, localization and qualification of biomolecules.
Green chemistry, also called sustainable chemistry, is an area of chemistry and chemical engineering focused on the design of products and processes that minimize or eliminate the use and generation of hazardous substances.[1] While environmental chemistry focuses on the effects of polluting chemicals on nature, green chemistry focuses on the environmental impact of chemistry, including lowering consumption of nonrenewable resources and technological approaches for preventing pollution.[2][3][4][5][6][7]
Urban metabolism is a model to facilitate the description and analysis of the flows of the materials and energy within cities, such as undertaken in a material flow analysis of a city. It provides researchers with a metaphorical framework to study the interactions of natural and human systems in specific regions.[1] From the beginning, researchers have tweaked and altered the parameters of the urban metabolism model. C. Kennedy and fellow researchers have produced a clear definition in the 2007 paper The Changing Metabolism of Cities claiming that urban metabolism is "the sum total of the technical and socio-economic process that occur in cities, resulting in growth, production of energy and elimination of waste."[2] With the growing concern of climate change and atmospheric degradation, the use of the urban metabolism model has become a key element in determining and maintaining levels of sustainability  and health in cities around the world. Urban metabolism provides a unified or holistic viewpoint to encompass all of the activities of a city in a single model.
Principia Cybernetica is an international cooperation of scientists in the field of cybernetics and systems science, especially known for their website, Principia Cybernetica. They have dedicated their organization to what they call "a computer-supported evolutionary-systemic philosophy, in the context of the transdisciplinary academic fields of Systems Science and Cybernetics".[1]
Valentin Fyodorovich Turchin (Russian: Валенти́н Фёдорович Турчи́н, 14 February 1931 in Podolsk – 7 April 2010 in Oakland, New Jersey[1]) was a Soviet and American physicist, cybernetician, and computer scientist. He developed the Refal programming language, the theory of metasystem transitions and the notion of supercompilation. He was as a pioneer in artificial intelligence and a proponent of the global brain hypothesis.
Venedikt Vasilyevich Yerofeyev, also Benedict Erofeev or Erofeyev (Russian: Венеди́кт Васи́льевич Ерофе́ев; 24 October 1938 in Niva-3 settlement, suburb of Kandalaksha – 11 May 1990 in Moscow) was a Russian writer and Soviet dissident.[1]
Anatoly Aleksandrovich Yakobson (Russian: Анато́лий Алекса́ндрович Якобсо́н; 30 April 1935, Moscow — 28 September 1978, Jerusalem) was a literary critic, teacher, poet and a central figure in the human rights movement in the Soviet Union.
Mikhail Sergeyevich Voslensky (Russian: Михаил Серге́евич Восленский) (December 6, 1920, Berdyansk, Ukrainian SSR – February 8, 1997, Bonn, Germany) was a Soviet writer, scientist, diplomat and dissident who authored the book Nomenklatura: The Soviet Ruling Class, about the Soviet nomenklatura, translated into 14 languages and printed in multiple editions.
Georgi Nikolayevich Vladimov (Russian: Гео́ргий Никола́евич Влади́мов; real family name Volosevich, Russian: Волосевич; 19 February 1931, Kharkiv – 19 October 2003, Frankfurt) was a Russian dissident writer.
Pyotr Markovich Aleshkovsky (Russian: Пётр Ма́ркович Алешко́вский; born 22 September 1957) is a Russian writer, historian, broadcaster, television presenter, journalist and archaeologist.[1]
Vladimir Alexandrovich Sharov (Russian: Владимир Александрович Шаров, April 7, 1952 – August 17, 2018) was a Russian novelist who was awarded the Russian Booker Prize in 2014 for his novel Return to Egypt (Возвращение в Египет).
Andrei Volos is a Russian writer.[1]
Wikisource is an online digital library of free-content textual sources on a wiki, operated by the Wikimedia Foundation. Wikisource is the name of the project as a whole and the name for each instance of that project (each instance usually representing a different language); multiple Wikisources make up the overall project of Wikisource. The project's aim is to host all forms of free text, in many languages, and translations. Originally conceived as an archive to store useful or important historical texts (its first text was the Déclaration universelle des Droits de l'Homme), it has expanded to become a general-content library. The project officially began on November 24, 2003 under the name Project Sourceberg, a play on the famous Project Gutenberg. The name Wikisource was adopted later that year and it received its own domain name.
Semantic publishing on the Web, or semantic web publishing, refers to publishing information on the web as documents accompanied by semantic markup. Semantic publication provides a way for computers to understand the structure and even the meaning of the published information, making information search and data integration more efficient.[1][2][3][4][5][6][7]
Self-publishing is the publication of media by its author at their own cost, without the involvement of a publisher. The term usually refers to written media, such as books and magazines, either as an ebook or as a physical copy using print on demand technology. It may also apply to albums, pamphlets, brochures, games, video content, artwork, and zines. Web fiction is also a major medium for self-publishing.
Web fiction is written works of literature available primarily or solely on the Internet. A common type of web fiction is the web serial. The term comes from old serial stories that were once published regularly in newspapers and magazines.
Web-to-print, also known as Web2Print, remote publishing or print e-commerce is commercial printing using web sites.[1] Companies and software solutions that deal in web-to-print use standard e-commerce and online services like hosting, website design, and cross-media marketing.
Variable data printing (VDP) (also known as variable information printing (VIP) or variable imaging (VI)) is a form of digital printing,  including on-demand printing, in which elements such as text, graphics and images may be changed from one printed piece to the next, without stopping or slowing down the printing process and using information from a database or external file.[1] For example, a set of personalized letters, each with the same basic layout, can be printed with a different name and address  on each letter. Variable data printing is mainly used for direct marketing, customer relationship management, advertising, invoicing and  applying addressing[2] on selfmailers, brochures or postcard campaigns.
A vanity press or vanity publisher, sometimes also subsidy publisher,[1] is a publishing house where anyone can pay to have a book published.[2][3]  The term "vanity press" is often used pejoratively, implying that an author who uses such a service is publishing out of vanity.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to books:
The World Book Capital (WBC) is an initiative of UNESCO which recognises cities for promoting books and fostering reading for a year starting on April 23, World Book and Copyright Day. Cities designated as UNESCO World Book Capital carry out activities with the aim of encouraging a culture of reading in all ages and sharing UNESCO’s values. The nomination does not provide a financial prize.[1]
World Book Day, also known as World Book and Copyright Day or International Day of the Book, is an annual event organized by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to promote reading, publishing, and copyright. The first World Book Day was celebrated on 23 April in 1995, and continues to be recognized on that day. A related event in the United Kingdom and Ireland is observed in March.[1] On the occasion of World Book and Copyright Day, UNESCO along with the advisory committee from the major sectors of the book industry, select the World Book Capital for one year. Each designated World Book Capital City carries out a program of activities to celebrate and promote books and reading.[2]
In library and archival science, preservation is a set of preventive conservation activities aimed at prolonging the life of a record, book, or object while making as few changes as possible. Preservation activities vary widely and may include monitoring the condition of items, maintaining the temperature and humidity in collection storage areas, writing a plan in case of emergencies, digitizing items, writing relevant metadata, and increasing accessibility.  Preservation, in this definition, is practiced in a library or an archive by a librarian, archivist, or other professional when they perceive a record is in need of maintenance.
The codex (plural codices /ˈkoʊdɪsiːz/)[1] was the historical ancestor of the modern book. Instead of being composed of sheets of paper, it used sheets of vellum, papyrus, or other materials.  The term codex is often used for ancient manuscript books, with handwritten contents.[2] A codex, much like the modern book, is bound by stacking the pages and securing one set of edges by a variety of methods over the centuries, yet in a form analogous to modern bookbinding.  Modern books are divided into paperback or softback and those bound with stiff boards, called hardbacks.  Elaborate historical bindings are called treasure bindings.[3][4] At least in the Western world, the main alternative to the paged codex format for a long document was the continuous scroll, which was the dominant form of document in the ancient world. Some codices are continuously folded like a concertina, in particular the Maya codices and Aztec codices, which are actually long sheets of paper or animal skin folded into pages.
The history of books became an acknowledged academic discipline in the 1980s. Contributors to the discipline include specialists from the fields of textual scholarship, codicology, bibliography, philology, palaeography, art history, social history and cultural history. Its key purpose is to demonstrate that the book as an object, not just the text contained within it, is a conduit of interaction between readers and words.
A dog ear is a folded down corner of a book page. The name refers to the ears of many breeds of domestic dog flapping over.[1]  A dog ear can serve as a bookmark. Dog-earing is also commonly used to mark a section or phrase in a book that one finds to be important or of personal meaning. Other names for this practice include page folding and corner turning.[2]  The practice is generally frowned upon by those that want to preserve books in their original condition.[3] It is also sometimes used to keep sheets of paper together, in the absence of a stapler or paper clip.
Book swapping or book exchange is the practice of a swap of books between one person and another. Practiced among book groups, friends and colleagues at work, it provides an inexpensive way for people to exchange books, find out about new books and obtain a new book to read without having to pay.  Because swaps occur between individuals, without central distribution or warehousing, and without the copyright owner making a profit, the practice has been compared to peer-to-peer (P2P) systems such as BitTorrent[1]—except that hard-copy original analog objects are exchanged.
Book packaging (or book producing) is a publishing activity in which a publishing company outsources the myriad tasks involved in putting together a book—writing, researching, editing, illustrating, and even printing—to an outside company called a book-packaging company. Once the book-packaging company has produced the book, they then  sell it to the final publishing company.
A book curse was a widely employed method of discouraging the theft of manuscripts during the medieval period in Europe.  The use of book curses dates back much further, to pre-Christian times, when the wrath of gods was invoked to protect books and scrolls.
The Nazi book burnings were a campaign conducted by the German Student Union (German: Deutsche Studentenschaft, DSt) to ceremonially burn books in Nazi Germany and Austria in the 1930s. The books targeted for burning were those viewed as being subversive or as representing ideologies opposed to Nazism. These included books written by Jewish, half-Jewish, communist, socialist, anarchist, liberal, pacifist, and sexologist authors among others.[1] The initial books burned were those of Karl Marx and Karl Kautsky,[2] but came to include very many authors, including Albert Einstein, Helen Keller, writers in French and English, and effectively any book incompatible with Nazi ideology. In a campaign of cultural genocide, books were also burned en masse by the Nazis in occupied territories, such as in Poland.[3]
A coffee table book, also known as a cocktail table book, is an oversized, usually hard-covered book whose purpose is for display on a table intended for use in an area in which one entertains guests and from which it can serve to inspire conversation or pass the time. Subject matter is predominantly non-fiction and pictorial (a photo-book). Pages consist mainly of photographs and illustrations, accompanied by captions and small blocks of text, as opposed to long prose. Since they are aimed at anyone who might pick up the book for a light read, the analysis inside is often more basic and with less jargon than other books on the subject. Because of this, the term "coffee table book" can be used pejoratively to indicate a superficial approach to the subject.[citation needed].
An audiobook (or a talking book) is a recording of a book or other work being read out loud. A reading of the complete text is described as "unabridged", while readings of shorter versions are abridgements.
A pop-up book is any book with three-dimensional pages and the terminology serves as an umbrella term for movable book, pop-ups, tunnel books, transformations, volvelles, flaps, pull-tabs, pop-outs, pull-downs, and other features each performing in a different manner. Three-dimensional greeting cards use the same principles.[1]
A wall decal, also known as a wall sticker, wall tattoo, or wall vinyl, is a vinyl sticker that is affixed to a wall or other smooth surface for decoration and informational purposes. Wall decals are cut with vinyl cutting machines. Most decals use only one color, but some may have various images printed upon them.
Straw marquetry is a craft very similar to that of wood marquetry, except that straw replaces the wood veneer. It is thought to have first been practised in the East; examples were brought to England in the 17th century.
The decorative arts are arts or crafts whose object is the design and manufacture of objects that are both beautiful and functional. It includes most of the arts making objects for the interiors of buildings, and interior design, but not usually architecture.  Ceramic art, metalwork, furniture, jewellery, fashion, various forms of the textile arts and glassware are major groupings.
Scrimshaw is scrollwork, engravings, and carvings done in bone or ivory. Typically it refers to the artwork created by whalers, engraved on the byproducts of whales, such as bones or cartilage. It is most commonly made out of the bones and teeth of sperm whales, the baleen of other whales, and the tusks of walruses.
Handicrafts (手工业 shougongye) produced during the Qing dynasty (1644–1911) were objects designed and hand-made by craftsmen. They were heavily ornate, incorporating Tibetan, Middle Eastern, Indian, and European techniques. The design or decorative aspect of the craft was as important as the crafting technique itself and Qing artisans were particular about the materials they used, such as jade (yu), stones, and wood. In their designs artisans drew heavily from a number of motifs, both mythical and natural. Certain areas in China became well-known for specific types of handicrafts; for example, Jingdezhen was known as the capital of porcelain. During the Qing era, Imperial Workshops built in Beijing brought together artisans and raw materials that were once only obtainable in disparate regions. This allowed for the combining of technologies and materials to produce new types of handicrafts. The tributary system also brought new sources for materials and artisans that were not from the production centers.[1]
The textile industry in China is the largest in the world in both overall production and exports.[1] China exported $274 billion in textiles in 2013, a volume that was nearly seven times that of Bangladesh, the second largest exporter with $40 billion in exports.[2] This accounted for 43.1% of global clothing exports.[3]
The economy of East Asia comprises 1.6 billion people (20% of the world population) living in six different countries and regions. The region includes several of the world's largest and most prosperous economies: Japan, South Korea, Mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Macau. It is home to some of the most economically dynamic places in the world,[11] being the site of some of the world's most extended modern economic booms, including the Japanese economic miracle (1950–1990), Miracle on the Han River (1961–1996) in South Korea, the Taiwan miracle in Taiwan (1960–1996) and the current economic boom (1978–2015) in Mainland China.[12][13]
Printing in East Asia originated from the Han dynasty (220 BCE – 206 CE) in China, evolving from ink rubbings made on paper or cloth from texts on stone tables used during the Han. Printing is considered one of the Four Great Inventions of China that spread throughout the world.[1][2] A specific type of printing called mechanical woodblock printing on paper started in China during the Tang dynasty before the 8th century CE.[3][2] The use of woodblock printing spread throughout Asia, and the idea of printing perhaps spread to Europe, where German publisher and inventor Johannes Gutenberg improved on the design with the introduction of the mechanical press in the mid-15th century. As recorded in 1088 by Shen Kuo in his Dream Pool Essays, the Chinese artisan Bi Sheng invented an early form of movable type using clay and wood pieces arranged and organized for written Chinese characters. The use of metal movable type was known in Korea by the 13th century during the Goryeo period.[4] In Korea the first movable types date from 1239/1240. A further discovery was made in 2009, and here the types were dated to the year 1377.
The National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC; Chinese: 国家自然科学基金委员会; pinyin: Guójiā Zìrán Kēxué Jījīn Wěiyuánhuì) is an organization directly affiliated to China's State Council for the management of the National Natural Science Fund.[1]
"One institution with two names" (Chinese: 一个机构两块牌子; pinyin: yīgè jīgòu liǎng kuài páizi) is an arrangement where a Chinese government agency or Chinese Communist Party (CCP) organization has two official names for political or bureaucratic reasons.[1][2][3] For example, one name can be used domestically and another used when dealing with institutions outside China. The arrangement can be achieved by either "adding a name" (加挂牌子; jiā guà páizi) or "externally reserving a name" (对外保留牌子; duìwài bǎoliú páizi).[2]
Coordinates: 40°06′09″N 83°07′37″W﻿ / ﻿40.1025°N 83.1269°W﻿ / 40.1025; -83.1269
ABC-Clio, LLC (stylized ABC-CLIO) is an American publishing company for academic reference works and periodicals primarily on topics such as history and social sciences for educational and public library settings. ABC-Clio provides service to fifteen different online databases which contain over one million online textbooks.[2] The company consults academic leaders in the fields they cover in order to provide authority for their reference titles.[3] The headquarters are located in Santa Barbara, California.
An International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) is an eight-digit serial number used to uniquely identify a serial publication, such as a magazine.[1] The ISSN is especially helpful in distinguishing between serials with the same title. ISSNs are used in ordering, cataloging, interlibrary loans, and other practices in connection with serial literature.[2]
ISO 55000 is an international standard covering management of assets of any kind. Before it,  a Publicly Available Specification (PAS 55) was published by the British Standards Institution in 2004 for physical assets. The ISO 55000 series of Asset Management standards[1][2] was launched in January 2014.
ISO 50001 Energy management systems - Requirements with guidance for use, is an international standard created by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). It supports organizations in all sectors to use energy more efficiently through the development of an energy Management System. The standard specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, maintaining and improving an energy management system, whose purpose is to enable an organization to follow a systematic approach in achieving continual improvement of energy performance, including energy efficiency, energy security, energy use and consumption.[1]
W. Kohlhammer Verlag GmbH, or Kohlhammer Verlag, is a German publishing house headquartered in Stuttgart.
The Bundesanzeiger is an official publication of the Federal Republic of Germany published by the German department of Justice with a scope similar to that of the Federal Register in the United States. It is used for announcing laws, mandatory legal and judicial announcements, announcing changes in the Handelsregister and for legally mandated announcements by the private sector. It is being superseded by the elektronischer Bundesanzeiger (eBAnz) (electronic Bundesanzeiger) in recent years.
Coordinates: 51°N 9°E﻿ / ﻿51°N 9°E﻿ / 51; 9
The OSCE Special Monitoring Mission to Ukraine was an international civilian observer mission of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) mandated to contribute to reducing tensions and to help foster peace in Ukraine. The mission was deployed in March 2014, following the Russian annexation of Crimea and the outbreak of open conflict in eastern Ukraine.[1][2] Following the 2022 Russian Invasion of Ukraine, the mission discontinued its operations on 31 March 2022.[3]
Pavlo Ivanovych Zhebrivsky (Ukrainian: Павло Іванович Жебрівський, born March 21, 1962, Nemyryntsi village, Ruzhyn Raion, Zhytomyr Oblast, Zhytomyr Oblast) is a Ukrainian politician, leader of the political party Republican platform.
George Tuka or Heorhiy/Georgiy Tuka (Ukrainian: Георгій Борисович Тука; born 24 November 1963[3]) is a Ukrainian politician and activist. 
From 29 April 2016 to 29 August 2019 Tuka was Deputy Minister for the temporarily occupied territories and internally displaced persons in the Groysman government.[4] In 2015 and 2016 he was governor of Luhansk Oblast.
Semen Ihorovych Semenchenko (Ukrainian: Семен Ігорович Семенченко, born 6 June 1974) is a former deputy to the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine, 	
First Deputy Chairperson of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine Committee on National Security and Defence[3] and the commander-founder of the volunteer territorial defence battalion "Donbas", based in Donetsk.[4][5] He was a deputy of the Verkhovna Rada from 2014 to 2019.[6]
Ihor Myronovych Baluta (Ukrainian: Ігор Миронович Балута) is a Ukrainian pediatrician, businessman, Ukrainian politician and Governor of Kharkiv Oblast from March 2014 until February 2015.[4][5][2]
Serhiy Oleksiyovych Taruta (Ukrainian: Сергій Олексійович Тарута, Russian: Сергей Алексеевич Тарута, tr. Sergei Alekseyevich Taruta, born 22 July 1955 in Vynohradne, Donetsk Oblast, Ukrainian SSR) is a Ukrainian politician and current member of the Ukrainian parliament,[1] Ukrainian businessman,[2][3][4] sometimes called an oligarch,[5] founder of Industrial Union of Donbas,[6][7] former[8][failed verification] President of FC Metalurh Donetsk,[9] and the former governor of Donetsk Oblast.[10][11]
In the run up to the 2019 Ukrainian presidential election, various organisations carried out opinion polling to gauge voting intention in Ukraine. The results of such polls are displayed in this article.
Dmytro Volodymyrovych Gnap (Ukrainian: Дмитро Володимирович Гнап, Dmytro Volodymyrovych Hnap; born 19 December 1977) is a Ukrainian journalist at Slidstvo.Info and Hromadske.TV.[1] His work focuses on corruption and crime.[2][3]
Colonel General Ihor Petrovich Smeshko (Ukrainian: Ігор Петрович Смешко, born 17 August 1955) served as the head of the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) from 2003 to 2005, where he supported the opposition during the Orange Revolution.[1] In 2010, he entered politics with the Strength and Honor party, which he formed with several former security and intelligence officials.[2] He was chairman of the Intelligence Committee under the President of Ukraine (from October 7, 2014, to March 12, 2015).[3]
The KGB of the Ukrainian SSR (Ukrainian: Комітет державної безпеки УРСР) was a state committee of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and a regional predecessor of the Security Service of Ukraine, a republican part of All-Union Committee for State Security. After the adaptation of the Constitution of the Ukrainian SSR (1978), it possessed a ministerial authority.
The State Committee for National Security (SCNS; Tajik: Кумитаи давлатии амнияти миллӣ, romanized: Kumitai Davlatii Amniyati Millī; Russian: Государственный комитет национальной безопасности) is the principal national security and intelligence agency of Tajikistan. Its main responsibilities include internal and border security, counter-intelligence, counter-terrorism, counter-narcotics, fighting organized crime, and surveillance. The chairman of the committee and all of his deputies are appointed by and answerable to the president of Tajikistan. Colonel General Saimumin Yatimov has served as the SCNS chairman since September 2, 2010.
Smart cities seek to implement information and communication technologies (ICT) to improve the efficiency and sustainability of urban spaces while reducing costs and resource consumption.[1] In the context of surveillance, smart cities monitor citizens through strategically placed sensors around the urban landscape, which collect data regarding many different factors of urban living. From these sensors, data is transmitted, aggregated, and analyzed by governments and other local authorities to extrapolate information about the challenges the city faces in sectors such as crime prevention,[2][3][4] traffic management,[5][6] energy use [6] and waste reduction. This serves to facilitate better urban planning[7] and allows governments to tailor their services to the local population.[8][9]
Lustre is the codename of a secret treaty signed by France and the Five Eyes (FVEY) for cooperation in signals intelligence and for mutual data exchange between their respective intelligence agencies. Its existence was revealed during the 2013 global surveillance disclosure based on documents leaked by the former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.[1][2][3][4]
The National Security Agency (NSA) is a national-level intelligence agency of the United States Department of Defense, under the authority of the Director of National Intelligence (DNI). The NSA is responsible for global monitoring, collection, and processing of information and data for foreign and domestic intelligence and counterintelligence purposes, specializing in a discipline known as signals intelligence (SIGINT). The NSA is also tasked with the protection of U.S. communications networks and information systems.[8][9] The NSA relies on a variety of measures to accomplish its mission, the majority of which are clandestine.[10] The existence of the NSA was not revealed until 1975. The NSA has roughly 32,000 employees.[11]
"Separation of church and state" is a metaphor paraphrased from Thomas Jefferson and used by others in discussions regarding the Establishment Clause and Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution which reads: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof..."
The United States Constitution has had influence internationally on later constitutions and legal thinking. Its influence appears in similarities of phrasing and borrowed passages in other constitutions, as well as in the principles of the rule of law, separation of powers and recognition of individual rights. The American experience of constitutional amendment and judicial review motivated constitutionalists at times when they were considering the possibilities for their nation's future. Examples include Abraham Lincoln during the American Civil War, his contemporary and ally Benito Juárez of Mexico, the second generation of 19th-century constitutional nationalists José Rizal of the Philippines, and Sun Yat-sen of China, and the framers of the Australian constitution. However, democratizing countries often chose more centralized British or French models of government, particularly the British Westminster system.
A More Perfect Union: America Becomes a Nation is a 1989 American feature film dramatizing the events of the 1787 Constitutional Convention.  The film was produced by Brigham Young University to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the drafting of the United States Constitution, and many professors from BYU's School of Fine Arts and Communications were involved in its production either as actors or in other capacities.  After its release, the film was officially recognized by the Commission on the Bicentennial of the United States Constitution as "of exceptional merit".[1]
George Reade (October 25, 1608 – November 21, 1671) was a prominent landowner, military officer, judge, and politician who served as a member of the House of Burgesses and as Acting Governor of Virginia Colony.[1][2] He is the great-great-grandfather of the first President of the United States, George Washington.[3][4]
James Stuart Gilmore III (born October 6, 1949) is an American politician, diplomat, statesman, and former attorney who was the 68th Governor of Virginia from 1998 to 2002 and Chairman of the Republican National Committee in 2001.
Laurence Jacob Kotlikoff (born January 30, 1951) is a Professor of Economics at Boston University, a William Warren Fairfield Professor at Boston University, a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research, a Fellow of the Econometric Society, and a former Senior Economist on the President's Council of Economic Advisers.
Monica Gail Moorehead (born 1952) is an American retired teacher, writer, and political activist. She was the presidential nominee of the Workers World Party (WWP) in 1996, 2000, and 2016.
The Workers World Party (WWP) is a revolutionary Marxist–Leninist communist party[1][better source needed] founded in 1959 by a group led by Sam Marcy of the Socialist Workers Party (SWP).[2][better source needed] Marcy and his followers split from the SWP in 1958 over a series of long-standing differences, among them their support for Henry A. Wallace's Progressive Party in 1948, their view of People's Republic of China as a workers' state, and their defense of the 1956 Soviet intervention in Hungary, some of which the SWP opposed.[3][4][5]
Progressive Era
These lists are a companion to the Wikipedia article entitled United States presidential nominating convention.
Because it is a U.S. territory instead of a U.S. state, voters in Guam are ineligible to elect members of the Electoral College, who would then in turn cast direct electoral votes for president and for vice president. The territory nonetheless conducts a non-binding straw poll on the day of the presidential general election to gauge the preference for president every election year.[1]
In United States presidential elections, the tipping-point state is the first state that gives the winning candidate a majority of electoral votes, thereby securing the candidate's victory in the Electoral College, when all states are arranged in decreasing order of their vote margins for the ultimate winner.
In U.S. political jargon, an October surprise is a news event that may influence the outcome of an upcoming November election (particularly one for the U.S. presidency), whether deliberately planned or spontaneously occurring. Because the date for national elections (as well as many state and local elections) is in early November, events that take place in October have greater potential to influence the decisions of prospective voters and allow less time to take remedial action; thus, relatively last-minute news stories could either change the course of an election or reinforce the inevitable.[1]  The term "October surprise" was coined by William Casey when he served as campaign manager of Ronald Reagan's 1980 presidential campaign.[2] However, there were October election-upending events that predated the coining of the term.[1][2]
In the United States, political parties nominate one candidate each for President of the United States and for Vice President of the United States. These candidates attempt to win presidential elections by taking a majority of the electoral vote. The two candidates together are known as a ticket. Many states did not hold popular votes for the presidential election prior to the advent of Jacksonian Democracy in the 1820s. Prior to the ratification of the 12th Amendment in 1804, electors cast two votes for president rather than one vote for president and one vote for vice president. Under the pre-12th Amendment Constitution, the candidate with the most votes became president and the candidate with the second most votes became vice president; hence, all candidates were technically running against each other.[a] The listed ages are as of election day; for races prior to 1845, December 1st is considered election day for the purposes of the list.
The Workers Party of America (WPA) was the name of the legal party organization used by the Communist Party USA from the last days of 1921 until the middle of 1929.
The White Patriot Party (WPP) was an American anti-Semitic, anti-Zionist, homophobic, white supremacist paramilitary political party which was associated with Christian Identity and the Ku Klux Klan. It was led by its founder, Frazier Glenn Miller Jr., through various organizational incarnations. In the mid-1970s, the organization was founded as the Carolina Knights of the Ku Klux Klan. It was involved in the 1979 Greensboro massacre, when a confrontation between Klansmen, Nazis and communists degenerated into a shootout and a mass shooting which left five people dead and twelve people wounded. The organization became the Confederate Knights of the Ku Klux Klan in the early 1980s and it became the White Patriot Party in 1985.[1]
Civil and political rights are a class of rights that protect individuals' freedom from infringement by governments, social organizations, and private individuals. They ensure one's entitlement to participate in the civil and political life of society and the state without discrimination or repression.
Crimes against humanity are widespread or systemic criminal acts which are committed by or on behalf of a de facto authority, usually by or on behalf of a state, that grossly violate human rights. Unlike war crimes, crimes against humanity do not have to take place within the context of wars, and they apply to widespread practices rather than acts which are committed by individuals.[1] Although crimes against humanity apply to acts which are committed by or on behalf of authorities, they do not need to be part of an official policy, and they only need to be tolerated by authorities. The first prosecution for crimes against humanity took place during the Nuremberg trials. Initially considered for legal use, widely in international law, following the Holocaust, a global standard of human rights was articulated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948). Political groups or states that violate or incite violations of human rights norms, as they are listed in the Declaration, are expressions of the political pathologies which are associated with crimes against humanity.
International speech crimes are acts of speech which are criminalized under international law. Incitement to genocide is one example, but the Nuremberg trials and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia convicted some defendants of crimes against humanity based on speech acts. For example, Serb politician Vojislav Šešelj was indicted for crimes against humanity, including "war propaganda and incitement of hatred  towards  non-Serb  people".[1] Serbian politician Radovan Karadžić was convicted of "participating in a joint criminal enterprise to commit crimes against humanity on the basis of his public speeches and broadcasts".[2] Dario Kordić and Radoslav Brđanin were also convicted of crimes based on instigating violence in public speeches.[2]
Joint criminal enterprise (JCE) is a legal doctrine used during war crimes tribunals to allow the prosecution of members of a group for the actions of the group. This doctrine considers each member of an organized group individually responsible for crimes committed by group within the common plan or purpose.[1] It arose through the application of the idea of common purpose and has been applied by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia to prosecute political and military leaders for mass war crimes, including genocide, committed during the Yugoslav Wars 1991–1999.
Superior orders, also known as the Nuremberg defense or just following orders, is a plea in a court of law that a person, whether a member of the military, law enforcement, a firefighting force,[clarification needed] or the civilian population, should not be considered guilty of committing actions that were ordered by a superior officer or official.[1][2]
In the practice of international law, Command responsibility (also the Yamashita standard, the Medina standard, and Superior responsibility) is the legal doctrine of hierarchical accountability for war crimes, whereby a superior officer (civil or military) is legally responsible for the war crimes and the crimes against humanity committed by his subordinates; thus, a commanding officer always is accountable for the acts of commission and the acts of omission of his soldiers.[1][2][3][4]
JURIST is a non-profit online legal news service run by law student volunteers from 29 law schools in the US, the UK, the Netherlands, Kenya, Mauritius, India, Australia, and New Zealand.[1] It features continuously updated US and international legal news based on primary source documents and contextualized by informed commentary provided by law professors, policymakers, lawyers and law students. An internet-based example of service learning,[2] JURIST gives its law student staffers ongoing opportunities to broaden their awareness of current legal events and develops their research and writing skills in a 21st-century technological environment while they serve the public as apprentice journalists.[3][4][5] JURIST is owned and operated by JURIST Legal News and Research Services, Inc., a 501(c)(3) educational organization based at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law led by Executive Director Megan McKee in conjunction with a Board of Directors chaired by Professor Bernard Hibbitts, who is also JURIST’s Publisher & Editor-in-Chief.
The Gene Kelly Awards for Excellence in High School Musical Theater, named after the actor/director Gene Kelly, are given out yearly by the Pittsburgh Civic Light Opera and the University of Pittsburgh.  The award was founded in 1991 and celebrates excellence in the musicals of the Pittsburgh area's high schools. For Best Musical, there are three levels based on budget. The organization also offers scholarships to high school seniors involved in any aspect of the show. As of 2011, there are 29 participating schools. In 2009, the Gene Kelly Awards spawned the National High School Musical Theater Awards, nicknamed "The Jimmys", which the Pittsburgh Civic Light Opera co-produces with Nederlander Presentations.[1]  The Awards were cancelled in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.[2] The Awards in 2021 were limited to individual awards only.[3]
The Pittsburgh–New Castle–Weirton, PA–OH–WV Combined Statistical Area is a 12-county combined statistical (CSA) in the United States. The largest and principal in the area is Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, but the CSA includes population centers from three states: Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Ohio.
Coordinates: 39°06′N 79°34′W﻿ / ﻿39.10°N 79.57°W﻿ / 39.10; -79.57
Wheeling is a city in the U.S. state of West Virginia. Located almost entirely in Ohio County, of which it is the county seat,[5] it lies along the Ohio River in the foothills of the Appalachian Mountains and also contains a tiny portion extending into Marshall County. Wheeling is located about 60 miles (96 km) west of Pittsburgh and is the principal city of the Wheeling metropolitan area. As of the 2020 census, the city had a population of 27,062, and the metro area had a population of 145,205.[3]
Winfield is a city in Putnam County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 2,397 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the county seat of Putnam County.[5]
Williamson is a city in Mingo County, West Virginia, United States, situated along the Tug Fork River. The population was 3,191 at the 2010 census. It is the county seat of Mingo County,[7] and is the county's largest and most populous city. Williamson is home to Southern West Virginia Community and Technical College. The Tug Fork River separates Williamson from South Williamson, Kentucky.
Weston is a city in Lewis County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 3,943 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the county seat of Lewis County,[5] and home to the Museum of American Glass in West Virginia and the Trans-Allegheny Lunatic Asylum.
West Union, incorporated July 20, 1881, is a town in Doddridge County, West Virginia, United States.  The population was 669 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the county seat of Doddridge County.[5]  The town is located along Middle Island Creek at the junction of U.S. Route 50 and West Virginia Route 18; the North Bend Rail Trail also passes through the town.[6]
Wellsburg is a city in and the county seat of Brooke County, West Virginia, United States.[5] The 2020 census recorded a population of 2,455.[2] It is a part of the Weirton–Steubenville metropolitan area. The city's economy includes several telemarketing facilities, and a factory that does metal fabrication and plastics molding.[6]
Addison, commonly known as Webster Springs, is a town in and the county seat of Webster County, West Virginia, United States. Although it was incorporated as Addison in 1892,[5] it is more frequently referred to as Webster Springs, the name of the town's post office.[1] It was named for Addison McLaughlin, upon whose land the town was originally laid out.[1] The population was 731 at the 2020 census.[4]
Wayne is a town in, and the county seat of, Wayne County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 1,441 at the 2020 census[2].[5]  Wayne is a part of the Huntington-Ashland, WV-KY-OH, Metropolitan Statistical Area. As of 2015, the MSA had a population of 361,580.
Union is a town in Monroe County, West Virginia, United States. Union’s population is 427 as of 2020.[2] It is the county seat of Monroe County.[5]
Sutton is a town in Braxton County, West Virginia,  United States. The population was 876 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the county seat of Braxton County.[5] Sutton is situated at a center of transportation in West Virginia. Interstate 79, a major north–south route, connects with Appalachian Corridor L (U.S. Route 19), another significant north–south route, passes several miles south of town.
Summersville is a city in Nicholas County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 3,459 at the 2020 census.[3] It is the county seat of Nicholas County.[6]
St. Marys is a city and the county seat of Pleasants County, West Virginia,  United States.[5]  The population was 1,847 at the 2020 census.[2]  St. Marys was established in 1849 by Alexander Creel, who is said to have had a vision of Mary while passing the townsite by boat on the Ohio River.[6]
Spencer is a city in and the county seat of Roane County, West Virginia, United States.[5] Originally known as "California," Spencer was chartered in 1858, and named after Spencer Roane (1762–1822), a distinguished jurist from Virginia, who served on the Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals, and for whom Roane County was named.[6][7]  The population was 2,062 at the 2020 census.[2]  Spencer is the home of the annual West Virginia Black Walnut Festival.[8] Points of interest include Charles Fork Lake, Chrystal Water and Power Company-Spencer Water and Ice Company, the McIntosh Mansion, and the Robey Theatre.
Romney is a town in and the county seat of Hampshire County, West Virginia, United States.[5] The population was 1,722 at the 2020 census.[4]
Ripley is a city in and the county seat of Jackson County, West Virginia, United States.[5] The population was 3,074 at the 2020 census.[2]
Princeton, is a city in and the county seat of Mercer County, West Virginia, United States.[5] The city is coined the "Heart of Mercer County" or the "Jewel of the South" in past decades. The population was 6,432 at the 2010 census with approximately 35,000 residents living in the greater Princeton area.[2] It is part of the Bluefield, WV-VA micropolitan area which has a population of 107,342. The city hosts the Princeton WhistlePigs baseball club of the Appalachian League. A main tourist destination of the city is the Mercer Street Grassroots District located in Downtown Princeton. This area has been revitalized and is now home to cafes, restaurants, shops, and artistic venues.
Point Pleasant is a city in and the county seat of Mason County, West Virginia, United States,[6] at the confluence of the Ohio and Kanawha Rivers. The population was 4,101 at the 2020 census.[3] It is the principal city of the Point Pleasant, WV-OH Micropolitan Statistical Area.
Pineville is a town in and the county seat[5] of  Wyoming County, West Virginia, United States, situated along the Guyandotte River. The population was 648 at the 2020 census.[2]
Philippi ('FILL-uh-pea') is a city in and the county seat of Barbour County, West Virginia, United States.[5] The population was 2,928 at the 2020 census.[2] In 1861, the city was the site of the Battle of Philippi, known as the "Philippi Races". Although a minor skirmish, this is considered the earliest notable land action of the American Civil War. It is also known as the home of Alderson Broaddus University, a four-year liberal-arts college affiliated with the American Baptist Churches. The city has a weekly newspaper, The Barbour Democrat.
Petersburg is a city in Grant County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 2,251 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the county seat of Grant County.[5]
Parsons is the county seat[6] and largest city in Tucker County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 1,322 at the 2020 census.[3] The mayor of Parsons is Dorothy Judy and the city administrator is Jason Myers. The city is also governed by a city council.
New Cumberland is a city in and the county seat of Hancock County, West Virginia, United States,[5] along the Ohio River. The population was 1,020 as of the 2020 census.[2] It is part of the Weirton–Steubenville metropolitan area.
Moundsville is a city in and the county seat of Marshall County, West Virginia, United States, along the Ohio River.[4] The population was 8,122 at the 2020 census.[2] It is part of the Wheeling metropolitan area. The city was named for the nearby ancient Grave Creek Mound, constructed 250 to 100 BC by indigenous people of the Adena culture.[5]
Morgantown is a city in and the county seat of Monongalia County, West Virginia, United States, situated along the Monongahela River. The largest city in North-Central West Virginia, Morgantown is best known as the home of West Virginia University. The population was 30,347 at the 2020 census.[10] The city serves as the anchor of the Morgantown metropolitan area, which had a population of 138,176 in 2020.
Moorefield is a town and the county seat of Hardy County, West Virginia, United States. It is located at the confluence of the South Branch Potomac River and the South Fork South Branch Potomac River. Moorefield was originally chartered in 1777; it was named for Conrad Moore, who owned the land upon which the town was laid out. The population was 2,527 at the 2020 census.[2]
Middlebourne is a town in Tyler County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 715 at the 2020 census.[2] It serves as the county seat of Tyler County.[5]
Martinsburg is a city in and the seat of Berkeley County, West Virginia,[6] in the tip of the state's Eastern Panhandle region in the lower Shenandoah Valley. Its population was 18,835 in the 2021 census estimate, making it the largest city in the Eastern Panhandle and the sixth-largest municipality in the state. Martinsburg is part of the Hagerstown-Martinsburg, MD-WV Metropolitan Statistical Area.
Marlinton is a town in Pocahontas County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 998 at the 2020 census. It is the county seat of Pocahontas County and is known for its scenic beauty.[6][7]
Madison is a city and former coal town in Boone County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 2,911 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the county seat of Boone County.[5]
Logan is a city in Logan County, West Virginia, United States, along the Guyandotte River. The population was 1,438 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the county seat of Logan County.[5]
Lewisburg is a city in Greenbrier County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 3,930 at the 2020 census.[4] It is the county seat of Greenbrier County.[6]
Kingwood is a city in and the county seat of Preston County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 2,980 at the 2020 census.[5] It sits within the Allegheny Mountains and is part of the Morgantown metropolitan area.
Paddy Town (c.1752-1855)
Wind Lea (1855-c.1860)
Hinton is a city in Summers County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 2,266 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the county seat of Summers County.[5] Hinton was established in 1873 and chartered in 1897. Hinton was named after John "Jack" Hinton, the original owner of the town site.[6] Much of Hinton's downtown was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1984.
Harrisville is a town in Ritchie County, West Virginia, United States. It is the county seat of Ritchie County.[5] Harrisville is located at the junction of State Routes 31 and 16, five miles south of U.S. 50. Within the community are an elementary school, the county board of education, many businesses, three banks, a library, offices of the Ritchie Gazette and The Pennsboro News, a municipal park, and North Bend Golf Course. North Bend Lake and North Bend State Park are located just outside town limits. Municipal elections are held every two years.[6]
Hamlin, originally named "Hamline," is a town in Lincoln County, West Virginia, United States, along the Mud River. The population was recorded as 1,040 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the county seat of Lincoln County.[5] Hamlin is a part of the Huntington-Ashland, WV-KY-OH, Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA). As of the 2010 census, the MSA had a population of 287,702. New definitions from February 28, 2013 placed the population at 363,000.[6]
Grantsville is a town in Calhoun County, West Virginia,  United States.  The population was 482 at the 2020 census.[2]  It is the county seat of Calhoun County.[5]  The town was established along the Little Kanawha River[6] in 1865 and named for Ulysses S. Grant.[7][8]  Grantsville is home to Wayne Underwood Park, which includes a .25-mile-long (0.40 km) walking trail, and to the annual West Virginia Wood Festival.
Glenville is a town in and the county seat of Gilmer County, West Virginia, United States,[5] along the Little Kanawha River. The population was 1,128 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the home of Glenville State University.
Franklin is a town in Pendleton County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 486 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the county seat of Pendleton County.[5] Franklin was established in 1794 and named for Francis Evick, an early settler.
Fayetteville is a town in and the county seat of Fayette County, West Virginia, United States.[6] The population was 2,892 at the 2010 census.
Fairmont is a city in and county seat of Marion County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 18,313 at the 2020 census.[2][4] It is the principal city of the Fairmont micropolitan area, which includes all of Marion County in North Central West Virginia, and is the second-largest city of the larger Morgantown–Fairmont combined statistical area.
Elizabeth is a town in, and the county seat of, Wirt County, West Virginia, United States, situated along the Little Kanawha River.[5][6]  The population was 724 as of the 2020 census.[2]
Clay is a town in and the county seat of Clay County, West Virginia, United States.[5] The population was 399 at the 2020 census.[2] It is the only incorporated town in Clay County. Clay is the birthplace of Dailey & Vincent’s bass singer Aaron McCune.
Charles Town is a city in Jefferson County, West Virginia, United States, and is also the county seat.[5] The population was 6,534 at the 2020 census. It is named for its founder Charles Washington, youngest brother of President George Washington.
Buckhannon is the only incorporated city in, and the county seat of, Upshur County, West Virginia, United States,[5] and is located along the Buckhannon River.  The population was 5,299 at the 2020 census.[2]  The city is located 60 miles southwest of Morgantown, 115 miles northeast of the capital city of Charleston, 140 miles south of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and 220 miles west of Washington, D.C.  Buckhannon is home to West Virginia Wesleyan College and the West Virginia Strawberry Festival, held annually during the third week of May. In 2023, Buckhannon will host The World Association of Marching Show Bands. [6]
Berkeley Springs is a town in, and the county seat of, Morgan County, West Virginia, United States,[3] in the state's Eastern Panhandle. "Berkeley Springs" is also commonly used to refer to the area in and around the Town of Bath.  In 1776, the Virginia Legislature incorporated a town around the springs and named it Bath. Since 1802, it has been referred to by the name of its original Virginia post office, Berkeley Springs. The population of the town was 800 (estimated). The town is located within the Hagerstown–Martinsburg, MD–WV Metropolitan Statistical Area. Berkeley Springs is a sister city to Bath, Somerset, England.
Beckley is a city in and the county seat of Raleigh County, West Virginia, United States. The population was 17,286 at the 2020 census. It is the principal city of the Beckley metropolitan area of Southern West Virginia, home to 115,079	residents in 2020. Beckley was founded on April 4, 1838, and was long known for its ties to the coal mining industry. It is the home of the West Virginia University Institute of Technology, as well as campuses of Concord University and the University of Charleston.[7]
Weirton (/ˈwɪərtən/) is a city in Brooke and Hancock counties in the U.S. state of West Virginia.  Located primarily in Hancock County, the city lies in the northern portions of the state's Northern Panhandle region.  As of the 2020 census, the city's population was 19,163.[2] Weirton is a principal city of the Weirton–Steubenville metropolitan area, which had a population of 116,903 residents in 2020. Additionally, Weirton is a major city in the western part of the Pittsburgh–New Castle–Weirton combined statistical area.
Winchester, VA–WV MSA is a U.S. metropolitan statistical area (MSA) as defined by the United States Office of Management and Budget (OMB) as of June, 2003. This should not be confused with the City of Winchester, Virginia, the most populous community within this MSA. The population of the MSA as the 2015 U.S. Census Bureau estimates is 133,836.[1]
Shenandoah County (formerly  Dunmore County) is a county located in the Commonwealth of Virginia. As of the 2020 United States Census, the population was 44,186.[1] Its county seat is Woodstock.[2] It is part of the Shenandoah Valley region of Virginia.
Coordinates: 38°42′N 77°29′W﻿ / ﻿38.70°N 77.48°W﻿ / 38.70; -77.48
Outlying areas:
Coordinates: 39°52′N 80°13′W﻿ / ﻿39.86°N 80.22°W﻿ / 39.86; -80.22
Coordinates: 41°14′N 77°38′W﻿ / ﻿41.24°N 77.64°W﻿ / 41.24; -77.64
Armstrong County is a county in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. As of the 2020 census, the population was 65,558.[2] The county seat is Kittanning.[3] The county was organized on March 12, 1800, from parts of Allegheny, Westmoreland and Lycoming Counties. It was named in honor of John Armstrong, who represented Pennsylvania in the Continental Congress and served as a major general during the Revolutionary War.
Adams County is a county in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. As of the 2020 census, the population was 103,852.[2] Its county seat is Gettysburg.[3] The county was created on January 22, 1800, from part of York County, and was named for the second President of the United States, John Adams. On July 1–3, 1863, a crucial battle of the American Civil War was fought near Gettysburg; Adams County as a result is a center of Civil War tourism.
The following is a list of the 67 counties of the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. The city of Philadelphia is coterminous with Philadelphia County, the municipalities having been consolidated in 1854, and all remaining county government functions having been merged into the city after a 1951 referendum.[1][2] Eight of the ten most populous counties are in the southeastern portion of the state, including four out of the top five, and eight of the top ten most populous counties are in either the Philadelphia or Pittsburgh Metropolitan Statistical Areas.
The Wyoming Valley is a historic industrialized region of Northeastern Pennsylvania. The region is historically notable for its influence in helping fuel the American Industrial Revolution with its many anthracite coal-mines. As a metropolitan area, it is known as the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre metropolitan area, after its principal cities, Scranton and  Wilkes-Barre. With a population of 567,559 as of the 2020 United States census, it is the  fifth-largest metropolitan area in Pennsylvania, after the Delaware Valley, Greater Pittsburgh, the Lehigh Valley, and the Harrisburg–Carlisle metropolitan statistical areas.
Hicks Creek is a tributary of the Susquehanna River in Luzerne County, Pennsylvania, in the United States. It is approximately 4.5 miles (7.2 km) long and flows through Exeter Township and Exeter.[1] The watershed of the creek has an area of 3.95 square miles (10.2 km2). A reach of the creek is designated as an impaired stream, with the cause of the impairment being sedimentation/siltation and water/flow variability. It is not a perennial stream. The upper reaches of the creek's watershed is mountainous, but the creek has an extremely low gradient in its lower reaches. A reach of the creek has been channelized and a debris basin is located along it. There are several bridge crossings along its course.
The Pennsylvania Code is a publication of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, listing all rules, regulations, and other administrative documents from the Government of Pennsylvania.[1][2]
A law book is a book about law. It is possible to make a distinction between "law books" on the one hand, and "books about law" on the other.[1] This distinction is "useful".[2] A law book is "a work of legal doctrine".[1] It consists of "law talk", that is to say, propositions of law.[2]
"The first duty of a law book is to state the law as it is, truly and accurately, and then the reason or principle for it as far as it is known".[3] The "first requisite in a law-book is perfect accuracy".[4] A "law book is supposed to state what the law is rather than what it is not".[5] "One great desideratum in a law book is facility of reference".[6] A "list of law books and related materials" is a legal bibliography.[7]
Commentaries on American Law is a four-volume book by James Kent.[1] It was adapted from his lectures at Columbia Law School starting in 1794.[2] It was first published in 1826 by O. Halsted and has been reprinted and revised many times since. A twelfth edition was edited by Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr.[3] A fourteenth edition edited by John M. Gould was published in 1896, and a fifteenth edition edited by Jon Roland was published 1997-2002.[4]
Google Books (previously known as Google Book Search, Google Print, and by its code-name Project Ocean)[1] is a service from Google Inc. that searches the full text of books and magazines that Google has scanned, converted to text using optical character recognition (OCR), and stored in its digital database.[2] Books are provided either by publishers and authors through the Google Books Partner Program, or by Google's library partners through the Library Project.[3] Additionally, Google has partnered with a number of magazine publishers to digitize their archives.[4][5]
A fictional book is a text created specifically for a work in an imaginary narrative that is referred to, depicted, or excerpted in a story, book, film, or other fictional work, and which exists only in one or more fictional works. A fictional book may be created to add realism or depth to a larger fictional work.  For example, George Orwell's novel  Nineteen Eighty-Four has excerpts from a book by Emmanuel Goldstein entitled The Theory and Practice of Oligarchical Collectivism which provides background on concepts explored in the novel (both the named author [Goldstein] and the text on collectivism are made up by Orwell).
Wasōbon (Japanese: 和装本, or "wahon"(和本)[1]) is a traditional book style in Japan that dates from the late eighth century AD with the printing of "Hyakumantō Darani" during the reign of Empress Shōtoku (764-770AD).[2] The majority of books were hand-copied until the Edo period (1603–1867), when woodblock printing became comparatively affordable and widespread. Movable-type printing had been used from the late 16th century, but for various aesthetic and practical reasons woodblock printing and hand-copied remained dominant until much later. Japanese equivalents for "book" include 本 (hon) and 書籍 (shoseki). The former term indicates only bound books, and does not include scrolls. The latter is used for printed matter only. The most general term is 書物 (shomotsu), which means all written or printed matter that has been collected into a single unit, regardless of construction.
This is a list of texts written in classical Japanese, grouped by genres and in chronological order.
The classical Japanese language (文語 bungo, "literary language"), also called "old writing" (古文 kobun), sometimes simply called "Medieval Japanese" is the literary form of the Japanese language that was the standard until the early Shōwa period (1926–1989). It is based on Early Middle Japanese, the language as spoken during the Heian period (794–1185), but exhibits some later influences. Its use started to decline during the late Meiji period (1868–1912) when novelists started writing their works in the spoken form. Eventually, the spoken style came into widespread use, including in major newspapers, but many official documents were still written in the old style. After the end of World War II, most documents switched to the spoken style, although the classical style continues to be used in traditional genres, such as haiku and waka. Old laws are also left in the classical style unless fully revised.
This is an alphabetical list of writers who are Japanese, or are famous for having written in the Japanese language.
This is a list of Zimbabwean writers.
This is a list in alphabetical order of Venezuelan literary figures and their most representative works, including poets, novelists, historians, essayists, and scholars.
A list of notable Uruguayan writers:
This is a list of Tunisian writers
This is a list of Trinidad and Tobago writers, including writers either from or associated with Trinidad and Tobago.
This is a list of Togolese writers.
This is a list of Tanzanian writers.
This is a list of authors from Taiwan.
The following is a list of Sri Lankan writers of all types.
This is a list of writers, including novelists, essayists, poets, playwrights, and journalists, who were born in Spain or whose writings are closely associated with that country.
This is a list of Sierra Leonean writers.
This is a list of Rwandan writers.
Gordon Douglas Killam (1930-2020), known to friends as Doug Killam, was a Canadian scholar of African literature.[1]
Postcolonialism (or Postimperialism) is the critical academic study of the cultural, political and economic legacy of colonialism and imperialism, focusing on the impact of human control and exploitation of colonized people and their lands. More specifically, it is a critical theory analysis of the history, culture, literature, and discourse of (usually European) imperial power.
This is a list of historians only for those with a biographical entry in Wikipedia. Major chroniclers and annalists are included. Names are listed by the person's historical period. The entries continue with the specializations, not nationality.[1]
Fred Lewis Pattee (March 22, 1863 – May 6, 1950) was an American author and scholar of American literature. As a professor of American literature at the Pennsylvania State University, Pattee wrote the lyrics of the Penn State Alma Mater. Pattee is sometimes labeled the "first Professor of American Literature", a position he held at Penn State from 1895 until 1928.[1]
The Penn State child sex abuse scandal concerned allegations and subsequent convictions of child sexual abuse committed by Jerry Sandusky, an assistant coach for the Penn State Nittany Lions football team, over a period of at least fifteen years. The scandal began to emerge publicly in March 2011 and broke in early November 2011 when Sandusky was indicted on 52 counts of child molestation, stemming from incidents that occurred between 1994 and 2009.[1] Sandusky was ultimately convicted on 45 counts of child sexual abuse on June 22, 2012,[2] and was sentenced to a minimum of 30 years and a maximum of 60 years in prison.[3]
The 2023 Penn State Nittany Lions football team will represent Pennsylvania State University in the 2023 NCAA Division I FBS football season as a member of the Big Ten Conference. The team is expected to be led by James Franklin in his tenth year as Penn State's head coach.[1]
The 2015 Penn State Nittany Lions football team represented Pennsylvania State University in the 2015 NCAA Division I FBS football season. The team was led by second year head-coach James Franklin and played its home games at Beaver Stadium in University Park, Pennsylvania. They were a member of the East Division of the Big Ten Conference. They finished the season 7–6, 4–4 in Big Ten play to finish in fourth place in the East Division. They were invited to the TaxSlayer Bowl where they lost to Georgia.
The 2010 Penn State Nittany Lions football team represented the Pennsylvania State University in the 2010 NCAA Division I FBS football season. The team was coached by Joe Paterno and played its home games in Beaver Stadium in University Park, Pennsylvania. They were members of the Big Ten Conference. Team captains for the season were wide receiver Brett Brackett and defensive tackle Ollie Ogbu.[4]
The 2009 Penn State Nittany Lions football team represented the Pennsylvania State University in the 2009 college football season. The team was coached by Joe Paterno and played its home games in Beaver Stadium in University Park, Pennsylvania. Penn State had the highest graduation rate among all of the teams on the Associated Press Top 25 poll with 89% of its 2002 enrollees graduating. Miami and Alabama tied for second place with a graduation rate of 75%.[1] The Nittany Lions finished the season with an 11–2 record and won the Lambert-Meadowlands Trophy award to the best team in the ECAC for the 28th time and the second consecutive year.[2]
The 1999 Penn State Nittany Lions football team represented the Pennsylvania State University in the 1999 NCAA Division I-A football season.[1] The team was coached by Joe Paterno and played its home games in Beaver Stadium in University Park, Pennsylvania.
The 1998 Penn State Nittany Lions football team represented the Pennsylvania State University in the 1998 NCAA Division I-A football season.[1] The team was coached by Joe Paterno and played its home games in Beaver Stadium in University Park, Pennsylvania.
In an organized sports league, a typical season is the portion of one year in which regulated games of the sport are in session: for example, in Major League Baseball the season lasts approximately from the last week of March to the last week of September.[1] In other team sports, like association football or basketball, it is generally from August or September to May although in some countries - such as Northern Europe or East Asia - the season starts in the spring and finishes in autumn, mainly due to weather conditions encountered during the winter.
The domestic association football season in countries that association football is played around the world varies in length and time of year contested. Most employ a single period in which the main league competition is contested alongside any cup competitions, although many Latin American leagues have two competitions contested in one season under the Apertura and Clausura system.
The Liechtenstein Football Association (LFV) (German: Liechtensteiner Fussballverband) is the governing body of football in Liechtenstein.[1] It was established on 28 April 1934,[2] and became affiliated to UEFA on 22 May 1974.[3][4] The association organizes the Liechtenstein national football team and the Liechtenstein Football Cup.[5] Because Liechtenstein has fewer than 8 (only 7 not counting reserves) active teams, it is the only UEFA member without its own national league.[6][7] This means the Liechtensteiner teams play in the Swiss Football League system.[8] The LFV is based in Schaan.[9]
Liechtenstein Olympic Committee (German: Liechtensteinisches Olympisches Komitee) is the National Olympic Committee representing Liechtenstein. Before the organisation was renamed in 2013 it was called "Liechtensteinischer Olympischer Sportverband" (LOSV).
The Liechtenstein Cycling Federation or LRV (in German: Liechtensteiner Radfahrerverband) is the national governing body of cycle racing in Liechtenstein.
The Yugoslav Cycling Federation or BSJ (in Serbo-Croatian: Biciklistički savez Jugoslavije) was the national governing body of cycle racing in Yugoslavia.
The Yugoslav Olympic Committee (Croatian: Jugoslavenski olimpijski komitet; Serbian: Југословенски олимпијски комитет / Jugoslovenski olimpijski komitet; Slovene: Jugoslovanski оlimpijski кomite; Macedonian: Југословенски олимписки комитет, romanized: Jugoslovenski olimpiski komitet) was the non-profit organization representing Yugoslav athletes in the International Olympic Committee. The YOC organized Yugoslavia's representatives at the Summer and Winter Olympic Games.
The Ice Hockey Federation of Yugoslavia (Serbo-Croatian: Savez hokeja na ledu Jugoslavije, Slovene: Hokejska Zveza Jugoslavije) was the governing body of ice hockey in Yugoslavia.
The Volleyball Federation of Yugoslavia (Odbojkaški Savez Jugoslavije) was a national governing body of volleyball. It was founded in 1946. It organized a men's national team and a women's national team.
The Volleyball Federation of Montenegro (OSCG) (Montenegrin: Odbojkaški savez Crne Gore) is the governing body of volleyball in Montenegro. It is based in Podgorica.
The FIVB Volleyball World Grand Champions Cup is an international volleyball competition contested by the senior men's and women's national teams of the members of Fédération Internationale de Volleyball (FIVB), the sport's global governing body. The tournament was created in 1993 after radical changes made on the biggest tournaments organised by the FIVB. The main goal was not to have a single year without two high-profile world-level volleyball competitions, alongside the pre-existing men's and women's world championship, men's and women's world cup and the volleyball tournament at the Olympic Games which are all quadrennial and the annual men's and women's Nations League.
Volleyball has been in the Military World Games event since the first inaugural edition in 1995 in Rome, Italy,[1] Ruled and managed by the International Military Sports Council Body, The tournament serve as a friendship competitions between military nations it is a biennial multi-sport event.
The Bolivarian Games (Spanish: Juegos Bolivarianos, full name Juegos Deportivos Bolivarianos) are a regional multi-sport event held in honor of Simón Bolívar, and organized by the Bolivarian Sports Organization (Organización Deportiva Bolivariana, ODEBO). The event is open to athletes from Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, Peru, and Venezuela. In 2010, the ODEBO decided to include Chile as the seventh member of ODEBO.[1] Except Panama, all other participating countries are Andean states.
The South American Games (also known as ODESUR Games; Spanish: Juegos Suramericanos; Portuguese: Jogos Sul-Americanos), formerly the Southern Cross Games (Spanish: Juegos Cruz del Sur) is a regional multi-sport event held between nations from South America, organized by the ODESUR (acronym for "Organización Deportiva Suramericana" – South American Sports Organization.[1]
Netherlands Antilles first entered the competition at the 1994 games in Valencia, Venezuela and have participated in all but one edition in 1998.
Coordinates: 18°02′N 63°03′W﻿ / ﻿18.033°N 63.050°W﻿ / 18.033; -63.050
Coordinates: 32°19′N 64°44′W﻿ / ﻿32.32°N 64.74°W﻿ / 32.32; -64.74
Coordinates: 09°10′S 171°50′W﻿ / ﻿9.167°S 171.833°W﻿ / -9.167; -171.833
Fakaofo, formerly known as Bowditch Island, is a South Pacific Ocean atoll located in the Tokelau Group. The actual land area is only about 3 km2 (1.1 sq mi), consisting of islets on a coral reef surrounding a central lagoon of some 45 km2. According to the 2006 census 483 people officially live on Fakaofo (however just 370 were present at census night). Of those present 70% belong to the Congregational Church and 22% to the Catholic Church.[2]
In the law of the United States, an insular area is a U.S.-associated jurisdiction that is not part of the 50 states or the District of Columbia. This includes fourteen U.S. territories administered under U.S. sovereignty, as well as three sovereign states each with a Compact of Free Association with the United States.[1][2] The term also may be used to refer to the previous status of the Philippine Islands and the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands when it existed.
While America is widely recognized as Number 1,[1] the following are links to international rankings of the United States.
These are the international rankings of Trinidad and Tobago.
The following are international rankings of  Panama
The following are international rankings of the Nicaragua.
These are the international rankings of Mexico.
These are the international rankings of Jamaica
These are the international rankings of Honduras.
International rankings of Haiti include economic, health, and political data.
Yo Soy 132, commonly stylized as #YoSoy132, was a protest movement composed of Mexican university students from both private and public universities, residents of Mexico, claiming supporters from about 50 cities around the world.[2]  It began as opposition to the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) candidate Enrique Peña Nieto and the Mexican media's allegedly biased coverage of the 2012 general election.[3] The name Yo Soy 132, Spanish for "I Am 132", originated in an expression of solidarity with the original 131 protest's initiators. The phrase drew inspiration from the Occupy movement and the Spanish 15-M movement.[4][5][6] The protest movement was known worldwide as the "Mexican spring"[7][8] (an allusion to the Arab Spring) after claims made by its first spokespersons,[9] and called the "Mexican occupy movement" in the international press.[10]
The Russian anti-corruption campaign is an ongoing effort by the Russian government to curb corruption, which has been recognized as one of Russia's most serious problems. Central documents in the campaign include the National Anti-Corruption Plan, introduced by President Dmitry Medvedev in 2009, and the National Anti-Corruption Strategy, introduced in 2010. The central organization in the campaign is the Anti-Corruption Council, established in 2008. Medvedev has made fighting corruption one of the top agendas of his presidency. According to Transparency International, Russia's position in the Corruption Perception Index has improved thanks to the anti-corruption campaign.
The Medvedev-Putin tandemocracy was the joint leadership of Russia between 2008 and 2012 when Vladimir Putin, who was constitutionally barred from serving a third consecutive term as president of Russia, assumed the role of prime minister under President Dmitry Medvedev. While the office of prime minister is nominally the subservient position, opinion differs as to what extent Putin was the de facto leader during this period, with most opinion being either that Putin remained paramount or that he and Medvedev had similar levels of power. Putin was re-elected president in the 2012 election and Medvedev became his prime minister.
Dorofei (or Dorotheus[1] Russian: Дорофей) (2004–2014)[2] was a rare Neva Masquerade (Siberian breed) cat with blue eyes belonging to former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev and his wife Svetlana Medvedeva.[1][3] Dorofei took over the title of First Pet from Vladimir Putin's black labrador Koni, when Medvedev was inaugurated on 7 May 2008.[4]
Russian opposition
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) is a United States government funded organization that broadcasts and reports news, information, and analysis to countries in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, Caucasus, and the Middle East where it says that "the free flow of information is either banned by government authorities or not fully developed".[6][7] RFE/RL is a private, non-profit 501(c)(3) corporation supervised by the U.S. Agency for Global Media, an independent government agency overseeing all U.S. federal government international broadcasting services.[8] Jeremy Bransten is acting editor-in-chief of RFE.[9]
This is a timeline of the main events of the Cold War, a state of political and military tension after World War II between powers in the Western Bloc (the United States, its NATO allies and others) and powers in the Eastern Bloc (the Soviet Union, its allies in the Warsaw Pact and later the People's Republic of China).
The Commission for Reception, Truth and Reconciliation in East Timor (more commonly known by its Portuguese acronym CAVR: Comissão de Acolhimento, Verdade e Reconciliação de Timor Leste) was an independent truth commission established in East Timor in 2001 under the UN Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET) and charged to “inquire into human rights violations committed on all sides, between April 1974 and October 1999, and facilitate community reconciliation with justice for those who committed less serious offenses.” The idea of a truth commission in East Timor was first agreed by the National Council of Timorese Resistance in 2000.[1]
Transitional justice is a process which responds to massive human rights violations through judicial redress, political reforms in a region or country, and other measures in order to prevent the recurrence of human rights abuse. Transitional justice consists of judicial and non-judicial measures implemented in order to redress legacies of human rights abuses.  Such mechanisms "include criminal prosecutions, truth commissions, reparations programs, and various kinds of institutional reforms"[1] as well as memorials, apologies, and various art forms. Transitional justice is instituted at a point of political transition classically from war to positive peace, or more broadly from violence and repression to societal stability (though some times it is done years later) and it is informed by a society's desire to rebuild social trust, reestablish what is right from what is wrong, repair a fractured justice system, and build a democratic system of governance. The core value of transitional justice is the very notion of justice—which does not necessarily mean criminal justice. This notion and the political transformation, such as regime change or transition from conflict are thus linked to a more peaceful, certain, and democratic future.
Right to truth is the right, in the case of grave violations of human rights, for the victims and their families or societies to have access to the truth of what happened.[1][2] The right to truth is closely related to, but distinct from, the state obligation to investigate and prosecute serious state violations of human rights.[3][4] Right to truth is a form of victims' rights;[5] it is especially relevant to transitional justice in dealing with past abuses of human rights.[6] In 2006, Yasmin Naqvi concluded that the right to truth "stands somewhere on the threshold of a legal norm and a narrative device ... somewhere above a good argument and somewhere below a clear legal rule".[7][8]
The Commission for Truth and Reconciliation in Yugoslavia was created in March 2001 through a mandate from President Vojislav Kostunica. The Commission was given a time limit of three years to complete its work and submit a report. Kostunica ordered the Commission to outline its own terms as far as the scope of the mandate.[1] The Commission was eventually tasked with investigating the causes of conflicts in the territories of the Former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.[2] In February 2002, nearly a year after it was announced, the Commission began its work. During the years specified in the Commission's mandate (2001-2004), former President Slobodan Milosevic was standing trial before the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) on charges of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and genocide. The Commission had planned to fully cooperate with the ICTY and briefly entertained the idea of holding regional hearings throughout the former republic to gather evidence. In early 2003, Yugoslavia formally dissolved and became Serbia and Montenegro. This effectively ended the Commission as it relied on a mandate from the president of Yugoslavia, an office that no longer existed. As far as it is known, the Commission never conducted any interviews, held any hearings, or filed any reports.[1]
The Greensboro Truth and Reconciliation Commission was established in 2004 based on the violent events of November 3, 1979 in Greensboro, North Carolina. On that date, the Communist Workers Party (CWP) led by Nelson Johnson gathered at the Morningside Homes to protest for social and economic justice along with protesting against the Ku Klux Klan (KKK). The chant that united the 40–50 protesters was “death to the Klan”. Shortly after 11 am, a nine-vehicle convoy that contained 37 members of the KKK and the American Nazi Party arrived. After a short skirmish, the KKK and American Nazis retrieved their firearms and moments later, five protesters lay dead and ten others were wounded.
The Ukrainian Institute of National Memory (Ukrainian: Український Інститут Національної Пам’яті, UINM), also translated as the Ukrainian Institute of National Remembrance, is the central executive body operating under the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Established on 31 May 2006 as a special organ for the restoration and preservation of national memory of the Ukrainian people. From 2006 to 2010, it was a central governmental institution with a special status, while from 2010 to 2014 a research budget institution.
The Truth and Dignity Commission (Arabic: هيئة الحقيقة والكرامة) (Hai'at ul-Ḥaqiqa wul-Karāma) (French: Instance Vérité et Dignité) is an independent tribunal established by law in Tunisia on 23 December 2013[1] and formally launched on 9 June 2014 by then-President Moncef Marzouki.[2] Established following the Tunisian Revolution, its purpose is to investigate gross human rights violations committed by the Tunisian State since 1955 and to provide compensation and rehabilitation to victims.[3] The Commission was given a four-year mandate (i.e. to 2018) with the possibility of a one-year extension.[4][5] Its president is the human rights activist Sihem Bensedrine.[6]
The Transitional Justice Commission (TJC; Chinese: 促進轉型正義委員會; pinyin: Cùjìn Zhuǎnxíng Zhèngyì Wěiyuánhuì) was an independent government agency of the Republic of China (Taiwan) active from 31 May 2018 to 30 May 2022 based on the Act on Promoting Transitional Justice. The commission is responsible for the investigation of actions taken by the Kuomintang between 15 August 1945 and 6 November 1992. The commission's main aims include: making political archives more readily available, removing authoritarian symbols, redressing judicial injustice, and producing a report on the history of the period which delineates steps to further promote transitional justice.[1]
The Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC, Sinhala: උගත් පාඩම් හා ප්‍රතිසන්ධාන කොමිෂන් සභාව Ugath Padam Ha Prathisandhana Komishan Sabhava, Tamil: கற்றுக்கொண்ட பாடங்கள் மற்றும் நல்லிணக்க ஆணைக்குழு) was a commission of inquiry appointed by Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa in May 2010 after the 26-year-long civil war in Sri Lanka to function as a Truth and reconciliation commission.[1]  The commission was mandated to investigate the facts and circumstances which led to the failure of the ceasefire agreement made operational on 27 February 2002, the lessons that should be learnt from those events and  the institutional, administrative and legislative measures which need to be taken in order to prevent any recurrence of such concerns in the future, and to promote further national unity and reconciliation among all communities.[citation needed] After an 18-month inquiry, the commission submitted its report to the President on 15 November 2011. The report was made public on 16 December 2011, after being tabled in the parliament.[2]
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission (Korean: 진실·화해를위한과거사정리위원회), established on December 1, 2005, is a South Korean governmental body responsible for investigating incidents in Korean history which occurred from Japan's rule of Korea in 1910 through the end of authoritarian rule in South Korea with the election of President Kim Young-sam in 1993.
The Sierra Leone's Truth and Reconciliation Commission was a truth commission created as part of the Lomé Peace Accord, which ended the 11-year civil war conflict in Sierra Leone in July 1999.
The International Commission of Investigation on Human Rights Violations in Rwanda since October 1, 1990 was an international inquiry that investigated reported human rights abuses during the Rwandan Civil War. Sponsored by four international non-governmental organizations, the commission was not officially mandated by the Rwandan government. Ten commissioners from eight countries spent two weeks in Rwanda visiting prefectures and documenting oral and written accounts, along with exhuming reported locations of mass grave burials.[1][2] Primarily, the inquiry examined three major massacres that occurred between 1990 and 1992. The commission lasted three months and the final report was released in March 1993.[2] Due to the dates of its investigation, the commission does not cover the Rwandan genocide, which followed in April 1994.
The Philippine Truth Commission was created to find out the truth about reports of large scale graft and corruption in the previous government; to put a closure to them by the filing of the appropriate cases against those who were involved. Furthermore, to deter others from committing such crimes and to restore the people's faith and confidence in the Government and in their public servants. On July 30, 2010, President Benigno Aquino, III set up the Philippine Truth Commission to find out the truth about reports of large scale graft and corruption in the previous government and to put a closure to them by the filing of the appropriate cases against those who were involved. Furthermore, to prevent others from committing such crimes and to restore the people's faith and confidence in the Government and in their public servants.[1]
Peru's Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC; Spanish: Comisión de la Verdad y Reconciliación, CVR) (13 July 2001 – 28 August 2003) was a truth and reconciliation commission established by President Alejandro Toledo to investigate the human rights abuses committed during the internal conflict in Peru between 1980s and 1990s.[1] The TRC was a response to the violent internal conflict between 1980 and 2000 during the administration of Presidents Fernando Belaúnde (1980–1985), Alan García (1985–1990), and Alberto Fujimori (1990–2000).[1] The commission's mandate was to provide a record of human rights and international humanitarian law violations committed in Peru between May 1980 and November 2000, as well as recommend mechanisms to promote and strengthen human rights.[2] The TRC reported on the estimated 70 000 deaths, assassinations, torture, disappearances, displacement, employment of terrorist methods and other human rights violations executed by the State, Shining Path, and the Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement.[1] The report concluded that there is both institutional and individual accountability, as well as identifying racial and cultural factors that became a catalyst for conflict.[1]
The Panama Truth Commission was appointed by Panamanian president Mireya Moscoso in 2000 to investigate crimes committed under the military rule of Omar Torrijos and Manuel Noriega.
The Commission of Inquiry to Locate the Persons Disappeared during the Panchayat Period (1990–1991) is a truth commission established in Nepal in 1990 after the end of the autocratic Panchayat Regime by the first post-Panchayat Prime Minister Krishna Prasad Bhattharai. The commission was set up to examine allegations of human rights violations and inquire about enforced disappearances during the Panchayat system from 1961 to 1990.[1] A report was officially submitted to the government in 1991, but it was made public only in 1994. The commission identified 35 persons disappeared on about one hundred studied cases.[2] However, no alleged perpetrators were judged.[citation needed]
The Equity and Reconciliation Commission (Arabic: هيئة الإنصاف والمصالحة; French: Instance Equité et Réconciliation - IER) is a Moroccan human rights and truth commission created on January 7, 2004, when King Mohammed VI signed a Dahir (royal decree). The commission was established to reconcile victims of human rights abuses, such as torture, forced disappearances and arbitrary arrests, committed by the government and high-ranking officials during the Years of Lead, with the State. The commission investigates events from 1956 to 1999, spanning the reign of the two previous monarchs. The proclaimed objectives of the commission were the protection and the promotion of the human rights in Morocco.[1]
The Truth and Justice Commission of Mauritius was an independent truth commission established in 2009, which explored the impact of slavery and indentured servitude in Mauritius. The Commission was tasked to investigate the dispossession of land, and “determine appropriate measures to be extended to descendants of slaves and indentured laborers.”[1][2] It was “unique in that it [dealt] with socio-economic class abuses" and explored the possibility of reparations.[1] The inclusion of reparations, whether for individuals or communities, was a controversial decision within the country which aimed to correct inequality.[3] The Commission attempted to cover more than 370 years, the longest period of time that a truth commission has ever covered.[1]
The Liberian Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) is a Parliament-enacted organization created in May 2005 under the Transitional Government. The Commission worked throughout the first mandate of Ellen Johnson Sirleaf after her election as President of Liberia in November 2005.  The Liberian TRC came to a conclusion in 2010, filing a final report and recommending relevant actions by national authorities to ensure responsibility and reparations.[1]
The Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission of Kenya (TJRC) was established in 2008. Kenya’s modern history has been marked not only by liberation struggles but also by ethnic conflicts, semi-despotic regimes, marginalization and political violence, including the coup d'état of 1982, the Shifta War, and the 2007 Post-election violence.[1]
The Haitian National Truth and Justice Commission began its operations in April 1995 and ended in February 1996. Haiti's once diverse and lively civil society had been tarnished greatly as a result of the ousting of its first democratically elected president, Jean-Bertrand Aristide, by its military forces. This deposing of President Aristide is widely known as a coup d'état, and from 1991 to 1994, the country became known for its weak civilian government. The army was determined to return Haiti to the intimidated society existing during the Duvalier dictatorship seven years prior.
In 1994 Guatemala's Commission for Historical Clarification - La Comisión para el Esclarecimiento Histórico (CEH) - was created as a response to the thousands of atrocities and human rights violations committed during the decades long civil war that began in 1962 and ended in the late 1990s with United Nations-facilitated peace accords.[1] The commission operated under a two-year mandate, from 1997 to 1999, and employed three commissioners: one Guatemalan man, one male non-national, and one Mayan woman.[2] The mandate of the commission was not to judge but to clarify the past with "objectivity, equity and impartiality."[3]
The National Reconciliation Commission was established in January 2002 by the Parliament of Ghana. The goal of the commission was to establish an "accurate, complete and historical record of violations and abuses of human rights inflicted on persons by public institutions and holders of public office during periods of unconstitutional government."[1] The Commission was formed after a new democratic party won the elections in 2000. The Commission covered  human rights violations in Ghana from 1957 to 1993. It looked into government abuses and military coups staged by former president Jerry Rawlings. The members of the Commission worked until the end of 2004.
Two years after German reunification, the Commission of Inquiry for the Assessment of History and Consequences of the SED Dictatorship in Germany, which was a truth commission that lasted from 1992 to 1994, was established by the German government with the objective of looking at the history and the consequences of the former East German communist government. It released its report in 1994, but some felt that more could be investigated. This resulted in the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry on Overcoming the Consequences of the SED Dictatorship in the Process of German Unity lasting from 1995 to 1998, which had the same objective, but investigated more thoroughly.
The Reconciliation and Unity Commission was a proposed government body to be set up if the Reconciliation, Tolerance, and Unity Bill, which was introduced into the Fijian Parliament on 4 May 2005 was passed.  The legislation proposed to empower the Commission to grant amnesty to perpetrators of the Fiji coup of 2000, and compensation to victims of it from 19 May 2000 through 15 March 2001.  The Fijian President would retain a veto over the granting of amnesty.
The Truth Commission (La Comisión de la Verdad) was created by the Ecuadorian government to investigate human rights violations.[1]
Coordinates: 2°00′S 77°30′W﻿ / ﻿2.000°S 77.500°W﻿ / -2.000; -77.500
The Initiative for the Integration of the Regional Infrastructure of South America (IIRSA) is a development plan to link South America's economies through new transportation, energy, and telecommunications projects.
The G-3 was a free trade agreement between Colombia, Mexico, and Venezuela that came into effect on January 1, 1995, which created an extended market of 149 million consumers with a combined GDP (Gross domestic product) of US$486.5 billion. The agreement states a ten percent tariff reduction over ten years (starting in 1995) for the trade of goods and services among its members. The agreement is a third generation one, not limited to liberalizing trade, but includes issues such as investment, services, government purchases, regulations to fight unfair competition, and intellectual property rights.
The Free Trade Area of the Americas (FTAA) was a proposed agreement to eliminate or reduce the trade barriers among all countries in the Americas, excluding Cuba. Negotiations to establish the FTAA ended in failure, however, with all parties unable to reach an agreement by the 2005 deadline they had set for themselves.
Economic Partnership Agreements (EPAs) are a scheme to create a free trade area (FTA) between the European Union and other countries. They are a response to continuing criticism that the non-reciprocal and discriminating preferential trade agreements offered by the EU are incompatible with WTO rules. The EPAs date back to the signing of the Cotonou Agreement. The EPAs with the different regions are at different states of play. The EU has signed EPAs with the following countries: the Southern African Development Community (SADC), ECOWAS (16 states), six countries in Eastern and Southern Africa, Cameroon, four Pacific states, and the CARIFORUM states.[1] Their defining characteristic is that they open up exports to the EU immediately, while exports to the partner regions is opened up only partially and over transitioning periods.[2]
Coordinates: 63°N 16°E﻿ / ﻿63°N 16°E﻿ / 63; 16
Coordinates: 46°56′20″N 7°28′31″E﻿ / ﻿46.93881°N 7.475306°E﻿ / 46.93881; 7.475306
Withdrawal from the United Nations by member states is not provided for in the United Nations Charter. According to the Government Information Office of Taiwan (the Republic of China):[1]
The United Nations (UN) has been depicted in film, television, literature, and other media which shape popular culture. Frequent depictions of the UN involve the organization itself, UN bodies and agencies, the UN headquarters, peacekeeping activities and UN peacekeepers, and UN workers.
Ex Tempore is a literary magazine published annually by the United Nations Society of Writers, or in French, Societé des écrivains des Nations Unies. The magazine was started in 1989.[1]  The editors seek contributions that are "crisp, impromptu, and as far away as possible from the stale UN jargon of declarations, resolutions and reports." 33 numbers have been issued, including the 180-page anniversary 30th compilation in all UN languages Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish.  The WHO publication New Special, with a circulation of 10,500 copies, published a two-page article by Sarah Jordan in February 2020 "Happy Anniversary" to mark 30 years of the publication of the literary journal (pages 40–41).[2] The April 2020 issue of International Diplomat carries an article entitled "30 Years United Nations Society of Writers" (pages 48–49) and notes "UNSW continues to advocate international solidarity in and through our cultural diversity, and would like to be seen as a herald of democracy. Over the centuries many authors and musicians have shared this vision of universal peace, e.g. Immanuel Kant in his famous essay on Perpetual Peace, Hugo von Hofmannsthal and Richard Strauss, who founded the Salzburger Festspiele in 1920 (one hundred years ago!!!) to consecrate music and drama to the task of unifying nations and cultures, expressing the ineffable in music – that highest aesthetic form and vital principle of humanity’s striving for transcendence."[3]
UN Special, the former magazine of international civil servants in Geneva, was founded in 1949 and circulated uninterruptedly until December 2019. As of 2020, the staff associations of the two organizations that co-owned the magazine went their separate ways, each with its own publication. The use of the United Nations name, logo and emblems are retained by UN Today exclusively, however the pool of writers of NewSpecial includes UN Staff members, diplomats, and others.
The United Nations television film series was a series of American television films planned and developed in the 1960s for the purpose of promoting the United Nations (UN) and educating television viewers about its work. Although six films were originally planned only four were broadcast, all by the  American Broadcasting Company (ABC) network between December 1964 and April 1966.[1][2]
United Nations Radio was created on 13 February 1946. In 2017, United Nations Radio and the UN News Centre merged to form UN News, producing daily news and multimedia content in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Swahili, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, and Hindi. In its new iteration, UN News Audio continues to produce daily news and feature stories about the work of the UN and its member countries in eight languages for more than 2,000 partner radio stations around the world.
The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to telecommunication:
This is a List of telephony terminology and acronyms which relate to telephony networks.
This article is a list of the legal regulatory bodies that govern telecommunications systems in different countries.[1][2][3][4][5][6][7][8][9][10][11] 
This list contains bodies ensuring effective regulatory role in a territory which is not necessarily a state, but is listed as "territory" or "economy" in the statistics of international institutions, in particular the International Telecommunication Union (ITU).
Toasternets were an early-1990s instantiation of the decentralized Internet, featuring open-standards-based federated services, radical decentralization, ad-hoc routing and consisting of many small individual and collective networks rather than a cartel of large commercial Internet Service Provider networks. Today's "community networks" and decentralized social networks are the closest modern inheritors of the ethos of the 1991-1994 era Toasternets.[2][3]
FidoNet is a worldwide computer network that is used for communication between bulletin board systems (BBSes). It uses a store-and-forward system to exchange private (email) and public (forum) messages between the BBSes in the network, as well as other files and protocols in some cases.
The CYCLADES computer network (French pronunciation: ​[siklad]) was a French research network created in the early 1970s. It was one of the pioneering networks experimenting with the concept of packet switching and, unlike the ARPANET, was explicitly designed to facilitate internetworking.[1][2]
BITNET was a co-operative U.S. university computer network founded in 1981 by Ira Fuchs at the City University of New York (CUNY) and Greydon Freeman at Yale University.[1]  The first network link was between CUNY and Yale.
A telecommunications network is a group of nodes interconnected by telecommunications links that are used to exchange messages between the nodes. The links may use a variety of technologies based on the methodologies of circuit switching, message switching, or packet switching, to pass messages and signals.
UUCP is an acronym of Unix-to-Unix Copy.[1] The term generally refers to a suite of computer programs and protocols allowing remote execution of commands and transfer of files, email and netnews between computers.
Many email clients now offer some support for Unicode. Some clients will automatically choose between a legacy encoding and Unicode depending on the mail's content, either automatically[1] or when the user requests it.[2]
The Simple Mail Access Protocol (SMAP)[1] is an application layer Internet protocol for accessing e-mail stored on a server.  It was introduced as part of the Courier suite, with the goal of creating a simpler and more capable alternative to IMAP.
Push-IMAP, which is otherwise known as P-IMAP or Push extensions for Internet Message Access Protocol, is an email protocol designed as a faster way to synchronise a mobile device like a PDA or smartphone to an email server.
In computing, the Post Office Protocol (POP) is an application-layer Internet standard protocol used by e-mail clients to retrieve e-mail from a mail server.[1] POP version 3 (POP3) is the version in common use, and along with IMAP the most common protocols for email retrieval.
The Local Mail Transfer Protocol (LMTP) is an alternative to (Extended) Simple Mail Transfer Protocol for situations where the receiving side does not have a mail queue, such as a message transfer agent acting as a message delivery agent. LMTP was described in RFC 2033 in 1996.[1]
The JSON Meta Application Protocol (JMAP) is a set of related open Internet Standard protocols for handling email. JMAP is implemented using JSON APIs over HTTP and has been developed as an alternative to IMAP/SMTP and proprietary email APIs such as Gmail and Outlook.[1]
Additional protocols and data models being built on top of the core of JMAP for handling contacts and calendar synchronization are meant to be potential replacements for CardDAV and CalDAV, and other support is currently in the works.[2]
In computing, the Internet Message Access Protocol (IMAP) is an Internet standard protocol used by email clients to retrieve email messages from a mail server over a TCP/IP connection.[1] IMAP is defined by RFC 9051.
Magnet is a URI scheme that defines the format of magnet links, a de facto standard for identifying files (URN) by their content, via cryptographic hash value rather than by their location.
Micro Transport Protocol or μTP (sometimes also uTP) is an open UDP-based variant of the BitTorrent peer-to-peer file sharing protocol intended to mitigate poor latency and other congestion control problems found in conventional BitTorrent over TCP, while providing reliable, ordered delivery.
UDP hole punching is a commonly used technique employed in network address translation (NAT) applications for maintaining User Datagram Protocol (UDP) packet streams that traverse the NAT. NAT traversal techniques are typically required for client-to-client networking applications on the Internet involving hosts connected in private networks, especially in peer-to-peer, Direct Client-to-Client (DCC) and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) deployments.[1]
In computer networking, Teredo is a transition technology that gives full IPv6 connectivity for IPv6-capable hosts that are on the IPv4 Internet but have no native connection to an IPv6 network. Unlike similar protocols such as 6to4, it can perform its function even from behind network address translation (NAT) devices such as home routers.
Microsoft Docs is the library of technical documentation for end users, developers, and IT professionals who work with Microsoft products. The Microsoft Docs website provides technical specifications, conceptual articles, tutorials, guides, API references, code samples and other information related to Microsoft software and web services. Microsoft Docs was introduced in 2016 as a replacement of MSDN and TechNet libraries which previously hosted some of these materials.[1][2]
Yupi was a Spanish-language Internet portal founded in 1997 by Carlos Cardona[1] and Camilo Cruz in Miami Beach, Florida.[2]
Xandr, formerly known as AppNexus, is an American multinational technology company operating a cloud-based software platform that enables and optimizes programmatic online advertising.[1] Headquartered in the Flatiron District of New York City, the company has 23 offices in North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia and Australia.[citation needed]
MSN TV (formerly WebTV) was a web access product consisting of a thin client device that used a television for display (instead of using a computer monitor), and the online service that supported it.  The device design and service was developed by WebTV Networks, Inc., a company started in 1995. The WebTV product was announced in July 1996 and later released on September 18, 1996. In April 1997, the company was purchased by Microsoft Corporation and in July 2001, was rebranded to MSN TV and absorbed into MSN.
WorldWideWeb (later renamed Nexus to avoid confusion between the software and the World Wide Web) is the first web browser[1] and web page editor.[2] It was discontinued in 1994. It was the first WYSIWYG HTML editor.
The Whole Internet User's Guide and Catalog, by Ed Krol, was published in September 1992 by O'Reilly.   The Los Angeles Times notes that the Whole Internet User's Guide and Catalog was the "first popular book about the medium" and "was later selected by the New York Public Library as one of the most significant books of the 20th century."[1][2] The title and format were inspired by Stewart Brand's Whole Earth Catalog.[3]
Earthrise is a photograph of Earth and some of the Moon's surface that was taken from lunar orbit by astronaut William Anders on December 24, 1968, during the Apollo 8 mission.[1][2][3] Nature photographer Galen Rowell described it as "the most influential environmental photograph ever taken".[4]
Astronauts Day is an American holiday, dedicated to NASA astronauts and their achievements. It is a "floating" holiday, observed on the last Friday of January.
NASA International Space Apps Challenge is annual NASA's global hackathon, first held in April 2012,[1] and serves as innovation incubation and civic engagement program. NASA and its partners put out challenges relating to current work for which space enthusiasts around the world of all backgrounds can develop innovative solutions[buzzword] (which can be more than just apps!), particularly focusing on use of NASA data and promoting education. The project, formerly run by NASA's Office of the Chief Information Officer, is part of NASA's Earth Science Mission Directorate and is a part of the Open Government Initiative founded under President Barack Obama "creating an unprecedented level of openness in Government." It also fulfills the United States’ commitments to the Open Government Partnership.
Moon trees are trees grown from seeds taken into orbit around the Moon, initially by Apollo 14 in 1971, and later by Artemis 1 in 2022. The idea was first proposed by Edward P. Cliff, then the Chief of the United States Forest Service, who convinced Stuart Roosa, the Command Module Pilot on the Apollo 14 mission, to bring a small canister containing about 500 seeds aboard the module in 1971. Seeds for the experiment were chosen from five species of tree: loblolly pine, sycamore, sweetgum, redwood, and Douglas fir.[1][2] In 2022, NASA announced it would be reviving the moon tree program by carrying 1,000 seeds aboard Artemis 1.[3]
The Apollo Applications Program (AAP) was created as early as 1966 by NASA headquarters to develop science-based human spaceflight missions using hardware developed for the Apollo program. AAP was the ultimate development of a number of official and unofficial Apollo follow-on projects studied at various NASA labs.[1] However, the AAP's ambitious initial plans became an early casualty when the Johnson Administration declined to support it adequately, partly in order to implement its Great Society set of domestic programs while remaining within a $100 billion budget. Thus, Fiscal Year 1967 ultimately allocated $80 million to the AAP, compared to NASA's preliminary estimates of $450 million necessary to fund a full-scale AAP program for that year, with over $1 billion being required for FY 1968.[2] The AAP eventually led to Skylab, which absorbed much of what had been developed under Apollo Applications.
Fe, Fi, Fo, Fum, and Phooey were five mice who traveled to the Moon and circled it 75 times on the 1972 Apollo 17 mission. NASA gave them identification numbers A3305, A3326, A3352, A3356, and A3400, and their nicknames were given by the Apollo 17 crew, Eugene Cernan, Harrison Schmitt, and Ronald Evans. The four male mice, one female mouse, and Evans orbited the Moon for a record-setting six days and four hours in the Apollo command module America as Cernan and Schmitt performed the Apollo program's last lunar excursions.
Jack the Giantkiller is a 1982 arcade game developed and published by Cinematronics. It is based on the 19th-century English fairy tale "Jack and the Beanstalk". In Japan, the game was released as Treasure Hunt.[1] There were no home console ports.
Jack, the Giant Killer (1987) is a contemporary fantasy novel by Charles De Lint.  The book is set in present-day Ottawa (where de Lint himself lives), but incorporates many elements of fantasy, folklore, and myth.[1]
Jack the Giant Killer is a 2013 American fantasy film produced by The Asylum and directed by Mark Atkins. A modern take of the fairy tales "Jack the Giant Killer" and "Jack and the Beanstalk", the film stars Ben Cross and Jane March. It is a mockbuster of Jack the Giant Slayer. It was released on DVD in the UK as The Giant Killer.
Jack the Giant Killer is a 1962 American heroic fantasy adventure film starring Kerwin Mathews in a fairy tale story about a young man who defends a princess against a sorcerer's giants and demons.[1]
The Christine Jorgensen Story is a 1970 American drama film and a fictionalized biographical film about trans woman Christine Jorgensen. While the overall premise of the film is accurate, many of the details are fictionalized for the continuity of the film. It was directed by Irving Rapper and based on Christine Jorgensen's autobiography.[3]
Boy, Did I Get a Wrong Number! is a 1966 DeLuxe Color American comedy film starring Bob Hope and Elke Sommer. This film marked the first of three film collaborations for Hope and comedian Phyllis Diller, and was followed by Eight on the Lam in 1967 and The Private Navy of Sgt. O'Farrell in 1968.[2]
Twice-Told Tales is a 1963 American horror anthology film directed by Sidney Salkow and starring Vincent Price. It consists of three segments, all loosely adapted by producer/screenwriter Robert E. Kent from works by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
Scorpion (Carmilla Black, born Thasanee Rappaccini) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. She first appears in Amazing Fantasy (vol. 2) #7 and was created by Fred Van Lente and Leonard Kirk.
Poison Ivy (Dr. Pamela Lillian Isley /ˈaɪzli/ EYEZ-lee) is a character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly in Batman stories. She was created by Robert Kanigher and Carmine Infantino, and first appeared in Batman #181 (June 1966).[2]
Monica Rappaccini is a character appearing in media published by Marvel Comics. Created by Fred Van Lente and Leonard Kirk, the character first appeared in Amazing Fantasy vol. 2 #7 (2005). She is depicted as a genius-level biochemist and the Scientist Supreme of the supervillain organization A.I.M. She has briefly dated both Bruce Banner and fellow A.I.M. agent George Tarleton.[1] Monica is the mother of Carmilla Black.
La hija de Rappaccini (Rappaccini's Daughter) is an opera in two acts composed by Daniel Catán to a libretto by Juan Tovar based on the play by Octavio Paz and the 1844 short story by Nathaniel Hawthorne. It premiered at the Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City in 1991 and had its US premiere in 1994 at San Diego Opera. Upon its premiere in San Diego, Rappaccini's Daughter became the first work by a Mexican composer to be produced by a major opera house in the United States.  Although Catán's second opera, Rappaccini's Daughter was his first commercial success.[1]
"Rappaccini's Daughter" is a Gothic short story by Nathaniel Hawthorne first published in the December 1844 issue of The United States Magazine and Democratic Review in New York, and later in the 1846 collection Mosses from an Old Manse. It is about Giacomo Rappaccini, a medical researcher in Padua who grows a garden of poisonous plants. He brings up his daughter to tend the plants, and she becomes resistant to the poisons, but in the process she herself becomes poisonous to others. The traditional story of a poisonous maiden has been traced back to India, and Hawthorne's version has been adopted in contemporary works.
MusicBrainz is a MetaBrainz project that aims to create a collaborative music database that is similar to the freedb project. MusicBrainz was founded in response to the restrictions placed on the Compact Disc Database (CDDB), a database for software applications to look up audio CD information on the Internet. MusicBrainz has expanded its goals to reach beyond a CD metadata (this is information about the performers, artists, songwriters, etc.) storehouse to become a structured online database for music.[4][5]
Rhythmbox is a free and open-source audio player software, tag editor and music organizer for digital audio files on Linux and Unix-like systems.[2]
RSS enclosures are a way of attaching multimedia content to RSS feeds by providing the URL of a file associated with an entry, such as an MP3 file to a music recommendation or a photo to a diary entry. Unlike e-mail attachments, enclosures are merely hyperlinks to files.  The actual file data is not embedded into the feed (unless a data URL is used). Support and implementation among aggregators varies: if the software understands the specified file format, it may automatically download and display the content, otherwise provide a link to it or silently ignore it.
Spam in blogs (also known as blog spam, comment spam, or social spam) is a form of Spamdexing. (Note that blog spam also has another meaning, specifically when a blog author creates posts without adding any informational or educational value solely for publishing them on other websites) It may be done by posting random comments on other blog websites (usually by an automated process) or by copying other websites' content and using it on free-to-use publishing services like Blogger and WordPress or publicly accessible wikis, digital guest books, and internet forums.
The Slashdot effect, also known as slashdotting, occurs when a popular website links to a smaller website, causing a massive increase in traffic. This overloads the smaller site, causing it to slow down or even temporarily become unavailable. This has the same effect as a denial-of-service attack, albeit accidentally. The name stems from the huge influx of web traffic which would result from the technology news site Slashdot linking to websites. The original circumstances have changed, as flash crowds from Slashdot were reported in 2005 to be diminishing due to competition from similar sites,[1] and the general adoption of elastically scalable cloud hosting platforms.  The effect has been associated with other websites or metablogs such as Fark, Digg, Drudge Report, Imgur, Reddit, and Twitter, leading to terms such as being farked or drudged, being under the Reddit effect, or receiving a hug of death from the site in question.[2][3] Google Doodles, which link to search results on the doodle topic, also result in high increases of traffic from the search results page.[4] Typically, less robust sites are unable to cope with the huge increase in traffic and become unavailable – common causes are lack of sufficient data bandwidth, servers that fail to cope with the high number of requests, and traffic quotas. Sites that are maintained on shared hosting services often fail when confronted with the Slashdot effect.
FCAN (Flash Crowds Alleviation Network) is an adaptive Content Delivery Network that dynamically optimizes the system structure between peer-to-peer (P2P) and client–server configurations as a possible way to alleviate flash crowds effect.
The client–server model is a distributed application structure that partitions tasks or workloads between the providers of a resource or service, called servers, and service requesters, called clients.[1] Often clients and servers communicate over a computer network on separate hardware, but both client and server may reside in the same system. A server host  runs one or more server programs, which share their resources with clients. A client usually does not share any of its resources, but it requests content or service from a server. Clients, therefore, initiate communication sessions with servers, which await incoming requests.
Examples of computer applications that use the client–server model are email, network printing, and the World Wide Web.
Enea AB is a global information technology company with its headquarters in Kista, Sweden that provides real-time operating systems and consulting services. Enea, which is an abbreviation of Engmans Elektronik Aktiebolag, also produces the OSE operating system.
A real-time operating system (RTOS) is an operating system (OS) for real-time computing applications that processes data and events that have critically defined time constraints. An RTOS is distinct from a time-sharing operating system, such as Unix, which manages the sharing of system resources with a scheduler, data buffers, or fixed task prioritization in a multitasking or multiprogramming environment. Processing time  requirements need to be fully understood and bound rather than just kept as a minimum. All processing must occur within the defined constraints. Real-time operating systems are event-driven and preemptive, meaning the OS can monitor the relevant priority of competing tasks, and make changes to the task priority. Event-driven systems switch between tasks based on their priorities, while time-sharing systems switch the task based on clock interrupts.
In computing, the Preboot eXecution Environment, PXE (most often pronounced as /ˈpɪksiː/ pixie, often called PXE Boot/pixie boot.) specification describes a standardized client–server environment that boots a software assembly, retrieved from a network, on PXE-enabled clients.  On the client side it requires only a PXE-capable network interface controller (NIC), and uses a small set of industry-standard network protocols such as DHCP and TFTP.
The Qualcomm Emergency Download mode, commonly known as Qualcomm EDL mode and officially known as Qualcomm HS-USB QD-Loader 9008[1] is a feature implemented in the boot ROM of a system on a chip by Qualcomm which can be used to recover bricked smartphones.[2][3] On Google's Pixel 3, the feature was accidentally shown to users after the phone was bricked.[4]
A power-on self-test (POST) is a process performed by firmware or software routines immediately after a computer or other digital electronic device is powered on.[1]
In computing, serial presence detect (SPD) is a standardized way to automatically access information about a memory module.  Earlier 72-pin SIMMs included five pins that provided five bits of parallel presence detect (PPD) data, but the 168-pin DIMM standard changed to a serial presence detect to encode much more information.[1]
The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) system provides a reference method for publicly known information-security vulnerabilities and exposures.[1] The United States' National Cybersecurity FFRDC, operated by The MITRE Corporation, maintains the system, with funding from the US National Cyber Security Division of the US Department of Homeland Security.[2] The system was officially launched for the public in September 1999.[3]
The Adversarial Tactics, Techniques, and Common Knowledge or MITRE ATT&CK is a guideline for classifying and describing cyberattacks and intrusions. It was created by the Mitre Corporation and released in 2013.[1]
The Common Attack Pattern Enumeration and Classification or CAPEC is a catalog of known cyber security attack patterns[1] to be used by cyber security professionals to prevent attacks.[2]
The Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) is a free and open industry standard for assessing the severity of computer system security vulnerabilities. CVSS attempts to assign severity scores to vulnerabilities, allowing responders to prioritize responses and resources according to threat. Scores are calculated based on a formula that depends on several metrics that approximate ease and impact of an exploit. Scores range from 0 to 10, with 10 being the most severe. While many utilize only the CVSS Base score for determining severity, temporal and environmental scores also exist, to factor in availability of mitigations and how widespread vulnerable systems are within an organization, respectively.
The Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) system provides a reference method for publicly known information-security vulnerabilities and exposures.[1] The United States' National Cybersecurity FFRDC, operated by The MITRE Corporation, maintains the system, with funding from the US National Cyber Security Division of the US Department of Homeland Security.[2] The system was officially launched for the public in September 1999.[3]
The Common Weakness Enumeration (CWE) is a category system for hardware and software weaknesses and vulnerabilities. It is sustained by a community project with the goals of understanding flaws in software and hardware and creating automated tools that can be used to identify, fix, and prevent those flaws.[1]  The project is sponsored by the National Cybersecurity FFRDC, which is operated by The MITRE Corporation, with support from US-CERT and the National Cyber Security Division of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.[2][3]
The Mitre Corporation (stylized as The MITRE Corporation and MITRE) is an American not-for-profit organization with dual headquarters in Bedford, Massachusetts, and McLean, Virginia. It manages federally funded research and development centers (FFRDCs) supporting various U.S. government agencies in the aviation, defense, healthcare, homeland security, and cybersecurity fields, among others.[4][5]
The Denver Post is a daily newspaper and website published in Denver, Colorado. As of June 2022,[update] it has an average print circulation of 57,265.[2] In 2016, its website received roughly six million monthly unique visitors generating more than 13 million page views, according to comScore.[3]
The Grand Forks Herald is a daily broadsheet newspaper, established in 1879, published in Grand Forks, North Dakota, United States. It is the primary daily paper for northeast North Dakota and northwest Minnesota. Its average daily circulation is approximately 7,500, in the city of Grand Forks plus about 7,500 more to the surrounding communities. Total circulation includes digital subscribers. It has the second largest circulation in the state of North Dakota.[1]
Viets Hotel was an 1876 vernacular Greek Revival building in Grand Forks, North Dakota. In proceeding years it had been the Richardson House (by 1884), a subdivided residence (by 1896), the Hall Hotel (from around 1906 until at least 1938), Hotel Apartments (1940), Hall Apartments (1942–88), and Bachellor Apartments (1989–97).[1][3][4][5]
Red River Valley Brick Co. is or was a property in Grand Forks, North Dakota that was removed from the National Register of Historic Places in 2004.[3]
The Northwood Bridge, also known as Goose River Bridge, was a historic 56-foot-long (17 m) bridge across the Goose River about 1.5 miles (2.4 km) from Northwood, North Dakota. Dating from 1906, it was significant as a relatively rare example of a half-hip type of Pratt pony truss bridge. It was also significant as the oldest surviving documented bridge in Grand Forks County, North Dakota. The bridge was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1997.[1][2]  It was destroyed by an overweight load in 2019.
The New Hampshire Apartments in Grand Forks, North Dakota were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982. They were built in 1904 at a cost of $26,000 and were significant as a building designed by architect Joseph Bell DeRemer. The apartments were an example of commercial vernacular architecture, and the building was the first in Grand Forks to have a planned second-story-level walkway to another building (the Security Building).[1][2] When listed on the National Register, the apartment complex was one of few remaining downtown structures designed by DeRemer with classical details.[2] It was built by the Dinnie Brothers, a construction firm that was established in 1881 and was at one time responsible for the building of more than 60 percent of the commercial buildings in Grand Forks.[3]
The Flatiron Building was an historic building in Grand Forks, North Dakota, that was built in 1906 and was destroyed by the 1997 Red River flood.  It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places, but was removed from the Register in 2004 because it had been destroyed.[3]
The Electric Construction Co. Building is or was a property in Grand Forks, North Dakota.  It was removed from the National Register of Historic Places in 2004.[3]
Dinnie Block was a property in Grand Forks, North Dakota.  It was removed from the National Register of Historic Places in 2004.[3]
Clifford Annex was a building in Grand Forks, North Dakota.  It was listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places, but was destroyed in the 1997 Red River flood, and was delisted in 2004.[3]
The Building at 317 S. 3rd St. in Grand Forks, North Dakota was built circa 1884 in a style that has been described as Early Commercial and Vernacular.[1]
The building at 205 DeMers Ave. is a property in Grand Forks, North Dakota that was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982. It was destroyed by the 1997 Red River flood, and was officially delisted in 2018.
The Sorlie Memorial Bridge, also known as the Red River Bridge, was constructed in 1929 by the Minneapolis Bridge Company to connect the cities of Grand Forks, North Dakota and East Grand Forks, Minnesota.[1] It was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1999.[1]
The Ost Valle Bridge is a bridge near Thompson, North Dakota that was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1997.  It crosses an unnamed tributary of the Red River, about one mile west of the Red River itself.  It is "one of the two oldest documented bridges in Grand Forks County that were built by long-term county bridge builder, the Jardine & Anderson".[2]: 7
Midway Bridge near Johnstown, North Dakota is the only bedstead bridge known to have been built in North Dakota. It appears to have been built locally, not as part of a state or county program, during the 1920-1930 period.[2] 
Also known as Bedstead Bridge, it is a Warren Bedstead-type truss bridge.[1]
WPA Stone Structures in Memorial Park and Calvary Cemetery, in Grand Forks, North Dakota, was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2010.  It includes work by Ray F. Wyrick, "'a noted cemetery landscape engineer' from Des Moines, IA, who consulted as a WPA design advisor all over the country."  The listing includes "two sets of stone entrance gateways, one relocated set of stone entry cairns, and a stone chapel building."  It is believed that Wyrick made provided overall design of general cemetery layout and designed a reflecting pool for the cemetery, too.[2]
Washington School is a building in Grand Forks, North Dakota that was built in 1907.  It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1992.[1][2]
The St. Michael's Parochial School at 504 N. 5th Ave. in Grand Forks, North Dakota, USA, also known as St. Michael's School, is a school complex which was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2016.[1]
South Junior High School is a property in Grand Forks, North Dakota, United States, that was listed on the US National Register of Historic Places in 1999.[1]
The United Lutheran Church is a church located at 324 Chestnut Street in Grand Forks, North Dakota. The historic church building was  listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1991.[2]
[3]
St. Michael's Church is a property in Grand Forks, North Dakota that was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1988.
B'nai Israel Synagogue and Montefiore Cemetery in Grand Forks, North Dakota consists of historic B'nai Israel Synagogue built in 1937 at 601 Cottonwood Street and its related historic Montefiore Cemetery at 1450 North Columbia Road which dates from 1888. B'Nai Israel (Hebrew for "Sons/Children of Israel") Synagogue was designed by noted Grand Forks architect Joseph Bell DeRemer in the Art Deco style of architecture and built by local builders Skarsbro and Thorwaldson at a cost of $14,000. It replaced the earlier wooden Congregation of the Children of Israel synagogue built in 1891 at 2nd Avenue, South & 7th Street. Montefiore Cemetery in Grand Forks is one of many institutions named for Sir Moses Montefiore.[2] On October 13, 2011, B'nai Israel Synagogue and Montefiore Cemetery was added to the National Register of Historic Places
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
Belleville is a historic[1] unincorporated community in Grand Forks County, North Dakota, United States. In 1884, it had one of 22 post offices in Grand Forks County.[2] It has an elevation of 1155 feet.[3]
Mekinock is an unincorporated community in eastern Grand Forks County, North Dakota, United States. It lies northwest of the city of Grand Forks, the county seat of Grand Forks County.[1] Mekinock's elevation is 860 feet (262 m).[2] It has a post office with the ZIP code 58258.[3]
Kempton is an unincorporated community in Avon Township, Grand Forks County, North Dakota, United States. It is located northwest of Northwood. Kempton is the location of the Carlott Funseth Round Barn, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[2]
Johnstown is an unincorporated community in Grand Forks County, North Dakota, United States.  It is the nearest community to the Midway Bridge, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.[2]
Arvilla (also Orange) is an unincorporated community in central Grand Forks County, North Dakota, United States. It lies along U.S. Route 2, west of the city of Grand Forks, the county seat of Grand Forks County.[1]  Its elevation is 1,004 feet (306 m). The community was first named Orange for Orange County, New York; it was renamed Arvilla for Arvilla Estella Hersey, the wife of a local farmer.[2] Although Arvilla is unincorporated, it has a post office, with the ZIP code of 58214.[3]
Grand Forks Air Force Base is a census-designated place (CDP) in Grand Forks County, North Dakota, United States. It corresponds to Grand Forks Air Force Base, a United States Air Force installation. As of the 2020 census, the CDP had a population of 2,002.[2]
Strabane Township is a township in Grand Forks County, in the U.S. state of North Dakota.[1]
Arvilla Township is a township in Grand Forks County, North Dakota, United States. It has a population of 334 people with a population density of 9 inhabitants per square mile (3.5/km2).[1]
Americus Township is a township in Grand Forks County, North Dakota, United States. It has a population of 162 people with a population density of five people per square mile.[1]
Allendale Township is a township in Grand Forks County, North Dakota, United States. It has a population of 368 people with a population density of ten people per square mile.[1]
Agnes Township is a township in Grand Forks County, North Dakota, United States. It has 72 people and 83 occupied houses, all rural. It has a population density of slightly over two people per square mile.[3]
A civil township is a widely used unit of local government in the United States that is subordinate to a county, most often in the northern and midwestern parts of the country. The term town is used in New England, New York, and Wisconsin to refer to the equivalent of the civil township in these states; Minnesota uses "town" officially but often uses it and "township" interchangeably. Specific responsibilities and the degree of autonomy vary in each state. Civil townships are distinct from survey townships, but in states that have both, the boundaries often coincide and may completely geographically subdivide a county. The U.S. Census Bureau classifies civil townships as minor civil divisions. Currently, there are 20 states with civil townships.
The list of Ohio Townships provides an alphabetic list of the 1362 current and historic townships in Ohio. While some have been totally absorbed into cities or villages, becoming paper townships, the list does not give historic names for any that were renamed.
The U.S. state of Missouri is divided into 1,378 townships in 114 counties.
The U.S. state of Minnesota is divided into 1,790 townships in 87 counties.
The U.S. state of Indiana is divided into 1,008 townships in 92 counties. Each is administered by a township trustee.
A minor civil division (MCD) is a term used by the United States Census Bureau for primary governmental and/or administrative divisions of a county or county-equivalent, typically a municipal government such as a city, town, or civil township. MCDs are used for statistical purposes by the Census Bureau, and do not necessarily represent the primary form of local government. They range from non-governing geographical survey areas to municipalities with weak or strong powers of self-government. Some states with large unincorporated areas give substantial powers to counties; others have smaller or larger incorporated entities with governmental powers that are smaller than the MCD level chosen by the Census.
In Vietnam, there are three kinds of third-level (commune-level) administrative subdivisions: the rural commune (Vietnamese: xã), the commune-level town (Vietnamese: thị trấn), and the ward (Vietnamese: phường, literal meaning: urban subdistrict). In Vietnam a rural commune is referred to as a xã and urban communes are referred to as Thị trấn, urban townships. However many communities, particularly large urban ones with provincial status, will be divided into wards which are known as phường.
Coordinates: 16°N 108°E﻿ / ﻿16°N 108°E﻿ / 16; 108
Coordinates: 22°10′N 113°33′E﻿ / ﻿22.167°N 113.550°E﻿ / 22.167; 113.550
The following is a list of the nine sovereign states and one territory where Portuguese is an official language.
Portuñol (Spanish spelling) or Portunhol (Portuguese spelling) (pronunciation) is a portmanteau of the words portugués/português ("Portuguese") and español/espanhol ("Spanish"), and is the name often given to any non-systematic mixture of Portuguese and Spanish[1] (this sense should not be confused with a mixed language spoken in northern Uruguay by the Brazilian border, known by several names, among them Portuñol). Close examination reveals it to be "a polyvalent term (portuñol/portunhol) used to describe a wide range of phenomena, including spontaneous contact vernaculars in border regions, errors produced by speakers attempting to speak the second language (L2) correctly, and idiosyncratic invented speech designed to facilitate communication between the two languages."[2]
In linguistics, language death occurs when a language loses its last native speaker. By extension, language extinction is when the language is no longer known, including by second-language speakers. Other similar terms include linguicide,[1] the death of a language from natural or political causes, and rarely glottophagy,[2] the absorption or replacement of a minor language by a major language.
The farming/language dispersal hypothesis[1] proposes that many of the largest language families in the world dispersed along with the expansion of agriculture. This hypothesis was proposed by archaeologists Peter Bellwood and Colin Renfrew. It has been widely debated and archaeologists, linguists, and geneticists often disagree with all or part of the hypothesis.
The Father Tongue hypothesis proposes that humans tend to speak their father's language. It is based on the discovery, in 1997, of a closer correlation between language and Y-chromosomal variation than between language and mitochondrial DNA variation. The initial work was performed on African and European samples by a team of population geneticists led by Laurent Excoffier.[1][2] On the basis of these and similar findings by other geneticists, the hypothesis was elaborated by historical linguist George van Driem in 2010 that the teaching by a mother of her spouse's tongue to her children is a mechanism by which language has preferentially been spread over time.[3]
In language, an archaism  is a word, a sense of a word, or a style of speech or writing that belongs to a historical epoch beyond living memory, but that has survived in a few practical settings or affairs. Lexical archaisms are single archaic words or expressions used regularly in an affair (e.g. religion or law) or freely; literary archaism is the survival of archaic language in a traditional literary text such as a nursery rhyme or the deliberate use of a style characteristic of an earlier age—for example, in his 1960 novel The Sot-Weed Factor, John Barth writes in an 18th-century style.[1]  Archaic words or expressions may have distinctive emotional connotations—some can be humorous (forsooth), some highly formal (What say you?), and some solemn (With thee do I plight my troth). 
The word archaism is from the Ancient Greek: ἀρχαϊκός, archaïkós, 'old-fashioned, antiquated', ultimately ἀρχαῖος, archaîos, 'from the beginning, ancient'.
"Ye olde" is a pseudo–Early Modern English phrase originally used to suggest a connection between a place or business and Merry England (or the medieval period). The term dates to the 1850s or earlier;[1] it continues to be used today, albeit now more frequently in an ironically anachronistic and kitsch fashion.[1]
Sensational spelling is the deliberate spelling of a word in a non-standard way for special effect.[1]
Chicago Review Press, or CRP, is a U.S. book publisher and an independent company founded in 1973. Chicago Review Press publishes approximately 60 new titles yearly under eight imprints: Chicago Review Press, Lawrence Hill Books, Academy Chicago, Ball Publishing, Council Oak Books, Zephyr Press, Parenting Press, and Amberjack Publishing.[2][3][4][5][6] They describe their books as "a little quirky, a little edgy, smart".[7]
The Chicago Reader, or Reader (stylized as ЯEADER), is an American alternative weekly newspaper in Chicago, Illinois, noted for its literary style of journalism and coverage of the arts, particularly film and theater. It was founded by a group of friends from Carleton College.[1]
The Newberry Library is an independent research library, specializing in the humanities and located on Washington Square in Chicago, Illinois.  It has been free and open to the public since 1887. Its collections encompass a variety of topics related to the history and cultural production of Western Europe and the Americas over the last six centuries. The Library is named to honor the founding bequest from the estate of philanthropist Walter Loomis Newberry.  Core collection strengths support research in several subject areas, including maps, travel, and exploration; music from the Renaissance to the early twentieth century; early contact between Western colonizers and Indigenous peoples in the Western Hemisphere; the personal papers of twentieth-century American journalists; the history of printing; and genealogy and local history.
The Smith Museum of Stained Glass Windows was an exhibition that opened in February 2000 at Chicago’s Navy Pier entertainment complex. It permanently closed in October 2014.[1] It was the first American museum dedicated solely to the art of stained glass windows.
Col. Wood's Museum (sometimes referred to simply as the Chicago Museum) was a museum located in Chicago, Illinois. The museum was founded in 1864, but was destroyed by the Great Chicago Fire. A second incarnation opened in 1875, but it was also destroyed by fire. The final incarnation of the museum was opened in 1884. The museum is perhaps most famous for at one point housing a pair of mummies as well as sheets of papyri (which supposedly formed the basis for parts of the Book of Abraham) that had once belonged to Latter Day Saint movement founder Joseph Smith.
The Peggy Notebaert Nature Museum is a natural history museum located in Chicago, Illinois, and operated by the Chicago Academy of Sciences. The museum traces its history to the founding of the academy in 1857.  After a century at a nearby location, the academy opened its present museum named for benefactor Peggy Notebaert in 1999 at the intersection of Fullerton Parkway and Cannon Drive in Lincoln Park.[1] The institution focuses on the natural history of the Chicago region, and offers educational programs for children and adults.  It is also known for its live butterfly house, which is attached to a laboratory and program to study and enhance Chicago area butterfly populations.
The Chicago Park District is one of the oldest and the largest park districts in the United States. As of 2016, there are over 600 parks included in the Chicago Park District as well as 27 beaches, several boat harbors, two botanic conservatories, a zoo, and 11 museums. The Chicago Park District also has more than over 230 field houses, 78 public pools, and dozens of sports and recreational facilities, with year-round programming. The district is an independent taxing authority as defined by Illinois State Statute and is considered a separate (or "sister") agency of the City of Chicago.[1] The district's headquarters are located in the Time-Life Building in the Streeterville neighborhood.
Visual arts of Chicago refers to paintings, prints, illustrations, textile art, sculpture, ceramics and other visual artworks produced in Chicago or by people with a connection to Chicago. Since World War II, Chicago visual art has had a strong individualistic streak, little influenced by outside fashions. "One of the unique characteristics of Chicago," said Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts curator Bob Cozzolino, "is there's always been a very pronounced effort to not be derivative, to not follow the status quo."[1] The Chicago art world has been described as having "a stubborn sense ... of tolerant pluralism."[2] However, Chicago's art scene is "critically neglected."[3] Critic Andrew Patner has said, "Chicago's commitment to figurative painting, dating back to the post-War period, has often put it at odds with New York critics and dealers."[4] It is argued that Chicago art is rarely found in Chicago museums; some of the most remarkable Chicago artworks are found in other cities (such as the brilliantly warped epic drawings of Henry Darger at the American Folk Art Museum in New York City, or Carlos Cortez' collection of early 20th-century Chicago "Wobbly" (Industrial Workers of the World) woodcut prints, now in the Walter P. Reuther Library at Wayne State University in Detroit).[5]
Chicago, Illinois, is the third-largest city in the United States and a world transit hub. The area is served by two major airports, numerous highways, elevated/subway local train lines, and city/suburban commuter rail lines; it is the national passenger rail hub for Amtrak routes, and also the main freight rail hub of the North America.
Tourism in Chicago draws on the city's  status as a "world-class destination known for its impressive architecture, first-rate museums, brilliant chefs" and wide variety of neighborhood attractions.[1]
Chicago Public Schools (CPS), officially classified as City of Chicago School District #299 for funding and districting reasons,[5] in Chicago, Illinois, is the third-largest school district in the United States, after New York and Los Angeles.
Steger School District 194 is a school district based in the village of Steger, Illinois, a Chicago suburb located in the extreme southern reaches of Cook County, and the northern portion of Will County. The district is composed of one middle school and three elementary schools; all schools are located in Steger with the exception of one.[2] District students in grades that range between kindergarten and fourth grade attend one of the three elementary schools. Two elementary schools, named Eastview Elementary School and Parkview Elementary School, are located in the village of Steger; they are directed by, respectively, principals Janet Inglese[3] and Stephanie Winborn.[4] A third elementary school, Saukview Elementary School, is located in the nearby village South Chicago Heights[2] and is headed by principal Jeff Nelson.[5] All three elementary schools feed their graduates into Columbia Central School, where the students will remain between grades six and eight[2] under jurisdiction of principal Mike Smith.[6] The district superintendent is Jeff Stawick.[7]
Sandridge School District 172 is an elementary school district based in the unincorporated southern Chicago suburb of Chicago Heights, Illinois on the Cook County side of boundaries with Will County, Illinois and Lake County, Indiana; Sandridge School District serves students in Chicago Heights and the surrounding communities of Lynwood and Sauk Village.[2] The district is composed of a single facility that handles all students below and including those in grade eight.[3] This school, known as Sandridge Elementary School.[4] The school and district were named for the geography of the school when it was initially constructed, as it was built upon a sandy ridge.[5]
Sunnybrook School District 171 is a school in the village of Lansing, Cook County, Illinois. It is a suburb of Chicago, and is located due south of the city proper. Sunnybrook School District 171 is composed of two schools: one elementary school and one middle school.[2] Students that are enrolled in this district begin their education in Nathan Hale Elementary School, where under direction of principal Cynthia Castaneda,[3] students that are in prekindergarten, kindergarten, or in grades one through four are educated.[2] Students between grades five and eight attend Heritage Middle School,[2] which is headed by principal Mr. Gardener and whose mascot is the eagle.[4] District 171's superintendent is Dr. Hughes B. George. [5]
Chicago Heights School District 170 (CHSD170 or SD170) is a school district headquartered in Chicago Heights, Illinois.
Ford Heights School District 169 is a public school district based in Ford Heights, Illinois, United States.
Brookwood School District 167 is an elementary school district based in the southern Cook County, Illinois village of Glenwood; it serves a periphery of the city of Chicago. The district is composed of two elementary schools, one middle school, and one junior high school; all schools are located within Glenwood.[2] Students begin their education at either Hickory Bend Elementary School or Longwood Elementary School; both institutions serve students up to grade four, although Longwood includes a prekindergarten program.[2] Students later attend Brookwood Middle School from fifth through sixth grade before completing their education in the district at Brookwood Junior High School, which serves grades seven and eight.[2] The district's superintendent is Dr. Valorie Moore.[3]
Park Forest-Chicago Heights School District 163 (SD163) is a school district headquartered in Park Forest, Illinois.[2] It serves sections of Chicago Heights.
Matteson School District 162 is a suburban school district in Illinois, based in Richton Park.[2] The district enrolls nearly 2,400 students,[citation needed] serving portions of Matteson, Richton Park, Olympia Fields, Park Forest and a small section of University Park.[3] As of 2017[update] it has 2,100 students.[4]
Flossmoor School District 161 is a school district headquartered in Chicago Heights, Illinois, in the Chicago metropolitan area.[2] It serves Chicago Heights and Flossmoor.[3]
Elementary School District 159 (ESD 159), also known as Matteson School District 159, is a school district headquartered in Matteson, Illinois near Chicago, United States.[2]
Thornton School District 154, also referred to as Cook County School District 154,[2] is an elementary school district based in the village of Thornton, Cook County, Illinois, and is a suburb of Chicago located south of the city proper. The district is composed of a single school, which covers grades one through eight in addition to kindergarten and prekindergarten programs.[3] The institution is called Wolcott School. Thornton School District's superintendent is Dr. Carol Kunst.[4]
Homewood School District 153 is a school district headquartered inside James Hart Middle School in Homewood, Illinois in the Chicago metropolitan area.[2][3]
Harvey School District 152 is a school district headquartered in Harvey, Illinois near Chicago.
South Holland School District 151 is an elementary school district in South Holland, a Chicago suburb located in southern Cook County, Illinois. It is composed of four schools; three elementary schools and one junior high school.[2] Students begin their education in the district at Taft School; prekindergarteners, kindergarteners, and first graders are educated here under supervision of principal Christine Wilson.[3] Students then proceed to Eisenhower School, where they will remain until third grade; the school's principal is Mr. Peter Kolinski. [3] The third and final elementary school in the district educates fourth and fifth graders, and is called Madison School; Madison's principal is Dr. Jerald McNair. [3] Graduates of Madison move on to Coolidge Middle School, where they will remain until graduating from the eighth grade. The principal of the district's middle school is Patricia Payne.[3]
South Holland School District 150 is an elementary school district in South Holland, a village located in Cook County just south of the city of Chicago. It is composed of three schools: two elementary schools and one junior high school; all three schools are located within South Holland, although the junior high school and one of the elementary school are located in the same facility.[2] Students begin their education as prekindergarteners or kindergarteners in Greenwood Elementary School, where under supervision of principal William Kolloway,[3] students will remain until graduating from grade three.[2] Students then progress to McKinley Elementary School under principal jerome Pharrel[4] where students in grades four and five are educated.[2] The last wing of education that the district provides takes place in McKinley Junior High School, which is in the same structure as McKinley Elementary School; it is also headed by Jerome Pharrel, and serves grades six through eight.[5] Dr. Jerry Jordan is the superintendent of the district.[6]
Community Consolidated School District 146 is located in the southwest suburbs of Chicago, Illinois, United States.  It is home to approximately 2500 students.[2]
Arbor Park School District 145 is a school district headquartered in Oak Forest, Illinois in Greater Chicago. It serves Oak Forest and Tinley Park.[2]
Posen-Robbins School District 143½ is a school district based in Posen, Illinois near Chicago, United States.[2] The district, which serves all or portions of Posen, Robbins, Blue Island, Harvey, and Markham, is about 20 minutes of transportation away from the Chicago Loop. The district serves grades Pre-K through 8th grade and has over 1,500 students and 87 teachers.[3]
Palos Heights School District 128 is a PK-8 Cook County, Illinois school district located in the southern village of Palos Heights; the district serves Palos Heights Proper and the majority of its neighboring unincorporated areas. All in all, the district is composed of four schools: Indian Hill Preschool, of which educates the prekindergarteners of the district, serves roughly 7% of the district students; Cathy Leslie serves as the director of the prekindergarten program at the facility.[2] Chippewa Elementary School, the most populous of the schools as of May 2008, educates District 128 students in grades one through three, and also runs a kindergarten program; it is under the direction of Mary Ann Redshaw.[3] Those in grades four through five attend Navajo Heights Elementary School, which bridges the gap between the elementary schools and the grades 6–8 Independence Junior High School; the principal of Navajo Heights Elementary School is Sharon Herman,[4] while the principal of Independence Junior High School is Dr. Kevin Kirk.[5] The district superintendent is Dr. Kathleen Casey,[6] and the mascot of Independence Junior High School is the patriot.[5]
Chicago Ridge School District 127½ is a school district headquartered in the Dr. Bernard Jumbeck Administrative Center in Chicago Ridge, Illinois.[2]
Worth School District 127 is an elementary school district based in Worth, a southern Chicago suburb located in Cook County, Illinois. District 127 is composed of two elementary schools, one junior high school, and a preschool institution; all schools are located within the village of Worth.[2] Students may begin their careers in the district as preschoolers at Worthridge School.[2] They may alternatively enter the district as kindergarteners in either Worth Elementary School or Worthwoods Elementary School, which serve kindergarteners and students between grades one and five[2] under, respectively, principals Joe Zampillo and Tim Hathhorn.[3] Graduates of the two elementary schools move on to attend Worth Junior High School, which is headed by its principal, Dr. Peter Yuska.[3] The district superintendent is Dr. Rita Wojtylewski.[4]
Alsip, Hazelgreen, Oak Lawn School District 126 is a school district headquartered in Alsip, Illinois, in the Chicago metropolitan area. The district headquarters, the Powers Wassberg Lehman Administrative Center, are within Prairie Junior High School.[2]
Evergreen Park Elementary School District 124 is a school district headquartered in Evergreen Park, Illinois, in the Chicago metropolitan area. It serves grades K-8. Students move on to the Evergreen Park Community High School District 231, which operates Evergreen Park High School.
Ridgeland School District 122 is a school district headquartered in Oak Lawn, Illinois in the Chicago metropolitan area.
Palos School District 118 (Palos 118) is a school district headquartered in Palos Park, Illinois, in the Chicago metropolitan area.
North Palos School District 117 (NPD 117) is a school district headquartered in Palos Hills, Illinois, in the Chicago metropolitan area.
Burbank School District 111 is an elementary school district located in Burbank, Illinois, a southwest Chicago suburb just south of Chicago Midway International Airport in Stickney Township, Cook County. The district, which was established in 1923 – nearly a half century before the city incorporated in 1970 – includes seven elementary schools and one junior high school, all of which are located within the city of Burbank; all of the elementary schools enroll students from kindergarten through sixth grade.[2] The district superintendent is Carol Kunst.[3]
Indian Springs School District 109 (ISD 109) is a school district headquartered in Justice, Illinois, in the Chicago metropolitan area.[2] It operates elementary schools and one junior high school.
Willow Springs School District 108 is a school district headquartered in Willow Springs, Illinois, in the Chicago metropolitan area. It serves Willow Springs and unincorporated areas with Justice, Illinois addresses.[2] It has a single school, Willow Springs School, which was initially located in a school building with four rooms. It began occupying its current site in the 1920s and the school building received an addition on its west side in 2005; this addition added main offices, computer labs, and a learning resource center.[3]
Pleasantdale School District 107 is a school district headquartered on the grounds of Pleasantdale Middle School in Burr Ridge, Illinois. It operates the district's elementary school in LaGrange, Illinois.[2]
LaGrange Highlands School District 106 is an elementary school district based in La Grange Highlands, an outlying suburb of Chicago located in Cook County, Illinois, near the border with DuPage County. District 106 is composed of two schools: one elementary school and one middle school, each named for the district.[2] The school has 992 students enrolled, and serves 976 of those students currently.[3] The district elementary school, Highlands Elementary School, serves students ranging from prekindergarten to grade four[2] under direction of principal Laura Magruder.[4] District students in grades five through eight move to Highlands Middle School,[2] which is headed by principal Megan VerVynck and assistant principal Stetson Steele. John Munch serves as the superintendent of the district.[4] Highlands feeds into Lyons Township Highschool.
LaGrange School District 105 (D105) is a school district headquartered in LaGrange, Illinois, with its service area including southern LaGrange as well as all or part of Countryside and Hodgkins.[2]
Cook County School District 104, also Summit School District 104, is an elementary school district headquartered in the James C. Wrenn Administrative Center in Summit, Illinois in the Chicago metropolitan area. The district serves the following places in Cook County: Summit, Bedford Park, and a section of Bridgeview.[2]
Lyons School District 103 (SD103) is a school district headquartered in Lyons, Illinois.[2]
Brookfield Zoo, also known as the Chicago Zoological Park,[2][3] is a zoo located in the Chicago suburb of Brookfield, Illinois. It houses around 450 species of animals in an area of 216 acres (87 ha). It opened on July 1, 1934, and quickly gained international recognition for using moats and ditches instead of cages to separate animals from visitors and from other animals.  The zoo was also the first in America to exhibit giant pandas, one of which (Su Lin[4]) has been taxidermied and put on display in Chicago's Field Museum of Natural History.  In 1960, Brookfield Zoo built the nation's first fully indoor dolphin exhibit, and in the 1980s, the zoo introduced Tropic World, the first fully indoor rainforest simulation and the then-largest indoor zoo exhibit in the world.
Shedd Aquarium (formally the John G. Shedd Aquarium) is an indoor public aquarium in Chicago, Illinois, in the United States.  Opened on May 30, 1930, the 5 million US gal (19,000,000 l; 4,200,000 imp gal) aquarium was for some time the largest indoor facility in the world. Today it holds about 32,000 animals.[1]
Millennium Station (formerly Randolph Street Terminal; sometimes called Randolph Street station or Randolph/South Water Street station) is a major commuter rail terminal in the Loop (downtown), Chicago. It is the northern terminus of the Metra Electric District to Chicago's southern suburbs, and the western terminus of the South Shore Line to Gary and South Bend, Indiana.
Coordinates: 41°52′44″N 87°37′12″W﻿ / ﻿41.8788°N 87.6200°W﻿ / 41.8788; -87.6200
MusicBrainz is a MetaBrainz project that aims to create a collaborative music database that is similar to the freedb project. MusicBrainz was founded in response to the restrictions placed on the Compact Disc Database (CDDB), a database for software applications to look up audio CD information on the Internet. MusicBrainz has expanded its goals to reach beyond a CD metadata (this is information about the performers, artists, songwriters, etc.) storehouse to become a structured online database for music.[4][5]
PyQt is a Python binding of the cross-platform GUI toolkit Qt, implemented as a Python plug-in. PyQt is free software developed by the British firm Riverbank Computing. It is available under similar terms to Qt versions older than 4.5; this means a variety of licenses including GNU General Public License (GPL) and commercial license, but not the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL).[3] PyQt supports Microsoft Windows as well as various flavours of UNIX, including Linux and MacOS (or Darwin).[4]
Flutter is an open-source UI software development kit created by Google. It is used to develop cross-platform applications for Android, iOS, Linux, macOS, Windows, Google Fuchsia,[4] and the web from a single codebase.[5]
The Google Summer of Code, often abbreviated to GSoC, is an international annual program in which Google awards stipends to contributors who successfully complete a free and open-source software coding project during the summer. As of 2022[update], the program is open to anyone aged 18 or over,[1] no longer just students and recent graduates. It was first held from May to August 2005.[2] Participants get paid to write software,[3] with the amount of their stipend depending on the purchasing power parity of the country where they are located.[4] Project ideas are listed by host organizations involved in open-source software development, though students can also propose their own project ideas.
The Stanford Digital Library Project (SDLP) (also called The Stanford Integrated Digital Library Project and The Stanford Digital Library Technologies Project) was a research program run by Hector Garcia-Molina, Terry Winograd, Dan Boneh, and Andreas Paepcke at Stanford University in the mid-1990s to 2004.[1]  The team also included librarians Rebecca Wesley and Vicky Reich.[2]  The primary goal of the SDLP project was to "provide an infrastructure that affords interoperability among heterogeneous, and autonomous digital library services."[3] and described elsewhere as "to develop the enabling technologies for a single, integrated and "universal" library, proving uniform access to the large number of emerging networked information sources and collections."[4]
PageRank (PR) is an algorithm used by Google Search to rank web pages in their search engine results. It is named after both the term "web page" and co-founder Larry Page. PageRank is a way of measuring the importance of website pages. According to Google:
Amy Nicole Langville (born 1975)[1] is an American mathematician and operations researcher, and is also a former star basketball player at the high school and college levels. One of the main topics in her research is ranking systems[2] such as the PageRank system used by Google for ranking web pages.[3] She has also applied her ranking expertise to basketball bracketology.[4] She is a professor of mathematics at the College of Charleston.
The Mathematics Genealogy Project (MGP) is a web-based database for the academic genealogy of mathematicians.[1][2][3] As of 31 December 2021,[update] it contained information on 274,575 mathematical scientists who contributed to research-level mathematics. For a typical mathematician, the project entry includes graduation year, thesis title (in its Mathematics Subject Classification), alma mater, doctoral advisor, and doctoral students.[1][4]
MAA FOCUS is the newsmagazine of the Mathematical Association of America. It carries news items and short articles of interest to the organization's members.[1]
Marcia Peterson Sward (February 1, 1939 – September 21, 2008) was an American mathematician and nonprofit organization administrator. She had a varied career as a teacher and an administrator of mathematical organizations, culminating in the position of Executive Director of the Mathematical Association of America. After retirement she started a new career in environmental education, specializing in children's programs such as GreenKids.
Last Child in the Woods: Saving Our Children From Nature-Deficit Disorder is a 2005 book by author Richard Louv that documents decreased exposure of children to nature in American society and how this "nature-deficit disorder" harms children and society. The author also suggests solutions to the problems he describes.  A revised and expanded edition was published in 2008.
Nature Cat is an educational animated children's television series that premiered on November 25, 2015 on PBS Kids and is aimed at children aged 3–8.[3][4] The series follows the adventures of four main characters: Nature Cat, Hal the Dog, Squeeks the Mouse, and Daisy the Bunny. The show has been nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for "Outstanding Writing in an Animated Program".[5] The series debut in November achieved nearly 3.7 million viewers, and by March it has achieved 69 million video streams across online platforms.[6] As of October 2016, Nature Cat has been renewed for a second and third season.[7] The second season premiered on January 1, 2018. Then the third season premiered on April 18, 2019. In 2021, the show was renewed for a fourth and fifth season. The fourth season premiered on May 9, 2022, while the fifth will premiere on April 17, 2023.[8]
The PBS Kids Bookworm Bunch was a preschool television block produced by Canada-based animation studio Nelvana Limited (now Nelvana Enterprises) that aired on PBS from September 30, 2000 to September 5, 2004. It typically aired on weekend mornings, depending on station preference and scheduling. The shows that formed the Bookworm Bunch were all based on children's books: Corduroy (by Don Freeman), Elliot Moose (by Andrea Beck), Timothy Goes to School (by Rosemary Wells), Seven Little Monsters (by Maurice Sendak), George Shrinks (by William Joyce), and Marvin the Tap-Dancing Horse (by Betty and Michael Paraskevas).
"Saturday-morning cartoon" is a colloquial term for the original animated series programming that was typically scheduled on Saturday and Sunday mornings in the United States on the "Big Three" television networks. The genre's popularity had a broad peak from the mid-1960s through the mid-2000s; over time it declined, in the face of changing cultural norms, increased competition from formats available at all times, and heavier regulations.[1] In the last two decades of the genre's existence, Saturday-morning and Sunday-morning cartoons were primarily created and aired to meet regulations on children's television programming in the United States, or E/I. Minor television networks, in addition to the non-commercial PBS in some markets, continue to air animated programming on Saturday and Sunday while partially meeting those mandates.[2][3]
Here are some of Kids' WB's most notable specials:
With the success with Fox Broadcasting Company, several other companies started to enter the broadcasting world in the 1990s to become the fifth commercial broadcast network that would allow a station to brand itself better and to stand out amongst the increasing number of channels particularly cable.[1] Chris-Craft Industries and Warner Bros. Television Distribution (syndication arm) jointly launched the Prime Time Entertainment Network in September 1993,[2][3] a consortium created in attempt at creating a new "fifth network." PTEN, Spelling Premiere Network, Family Network and the proposed WB Network & Paramount Network were being shopped in January 1994 against syndicated blocks Disney Afternoon and Universal's "Action Pack."[1] Spelling Premiere Network had launched in August 1994.[4] All American Television considered launching a first-run movie network with 22 movies as of November 1994.[5] Chris-Craft subsidiary United Television then partnered with Paramount (by then recently merged with Viacom) to create the United Paramount Network (UPN), which launched in January 1995. Warner Bros. parent Time Warner then formed a partnership with the Tribune Company to create The WB, which also launched less than a week after UPN made its debut.[6] Concurrently, United left PTEN's parent, the Prime Time Consortium, to focus on UPN,[7] leaving PTEN as primarily a syndicator of its remaining programs; the service shared affiliations with its respective parents' own network ventures (in some cases, resulting in PTEN's programming airing in off-peak time slots) until it finally folded in September 1997.
The Financial Interest and Syndication Rules, widely known as the fin-syn rules, were a set of rules imposed by the Federal Communications Commission in the United States in 1970. The FCC sought to prevent the Big Three television networks from monopolizing the broadcast landscape by preventing them from owning any of the programming that they aired in prime time.[1] The rules also prohibited networks from airing syndicated programming they had a financial stake in. The rules also led to the networks spun-off their syndicated divisions, like CBS' CBS Enterprises was later renamed as Viacom in 1971 and later spun-off, ABC's ABC Films was sold to its five executives and later renamed as Worldvision Enterprises and NBC's syndicated division NBC Films  was later sold to National Telefilm Associates (NTA) for $7.5 million, both occurred in March 1973.[2][3][4][5]
The Museum of Broadcast Communications (MBC) is an American museum, the stated mission of which is "to collect, preserve, and present historic and contemporary radio and television content as well as educate, inform and entertain through our archives, public programs, screenings, exhibits, publications and online access to our resources."[1] It is located in Chicago.
The International Museum of Surgical Science is a museum located in the Gold Coast neighborhood of Chicago, Illinois. It is operated by The International College of Surgeons and features exhibits dealing with various aspects of Eastern and Western medicine.  It was founded by Dr. Max Thorek in 1954. The museum's exhibits are displayed by theme or surgical discipline.  Displays include photographs, paintings and drawings, sculpture, medical equipment, skeletons, medical specimens and historic artifacts. The library contains more than 5,000 rare medical texts.[2]
Henry Crown Space Center opened in 1986.[1] The space center includes artifacts and interactive exhibits about space travel. Located in the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry the Henry Crown Space Center includes the Apollo 8 spacecraft and Aurora 7 capsule.[2]
The Field Museum of Natural History (FMNH), also known as The Field Museum, is a natural history museum in Chicago, Illinois, and is one of the largest such museums in the world.[4] The museum is popular for the size and quality of its educational and scientific programs,[5][6] and its extensive scientific-specimen and artifact collections.[7] The permanent exhibitions,[8] which attract up to two million visitors annually, include fossils, current cultures from around the world, and interactive programming demonstrating today's urgent conservation needs.[9][10] The museum is named in honor of its first major benefactor, Marshall Field, the department-store magnate. The museum and its collections originated from the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition and the artifacts displayed at the fair.[11]
The Pritzker Military Museum & Library (formerly Pritzker Military Library) is a non-profit museum and a research library for the study of military history on Michigan Avenue in Chicago, Illinois. The institution was founded in 2003, and its specialist collections include material relating to Winston Churchill and war-related sheet music.
The Oriental Institute (OI), established in 1919, is the University of Chicago's interdisciplinary research center for ancient Near Eastern ("Orient") studies and archaeology museum. It was founded for the university by professor James Henry Breasted with funds donated by John D. Rockefeller, Jr.  It conducts research on ancient civilizations throughout the Near East, including at its facility, Chicago House, in Luxor, Egypt.  The institute publicly exhibits an extensive collection of artifacts related to ancient civilizations at its on-campus building in Hyde Park, Chicago.  According to anthropologist William Parkinson of the Field Museum, the OI's highly focused "near Eastern, or southwest Asian and Egyptian" collection is one of the finest in the world.[1]
The Newberry Library is an independent research library, specializing in the humanities and located on Washington Square in Chicago, Illinois.  It has been free and open to the public since 1887. Its collections encompass a variety of topics related to the history and cultural production of Western Europe and the Americas over the last six centuries. The Library is named to honor the founding bequest from the estate of philanthropist Walter Loomis Newberry.  Core collection strengths support research in several subject areas, including maps, travel, and exploration; music from the Renaissance to the early twentieth century; early contact between Western colonizers and Indigenous peoples in the Western Hemisphere; the personal papers of twentieth-century American journalists; the history of printing; and genealogy and local history.
The DuSable Black History Museum and Education Center, formerly the DuSable Museum of African American History, is a museum in Chicago that is dedicated to the study and conservation of African-American history, culture, and art. It was founded in 1961 by Margaret Taylor-Burroughs, her husband Charles Burroughs, Gerard Lew, Eugene Feldman, Bernard Goss, Marian M. Hadley, and others.[1] They established the museum to celebrate black culture, at the time overlooked by most museums and academic establishments.  The museum has an affiliation with the Smithsonian Institution.
Coordinates: 44°22′22.6″N 100°20′19.4″W﻿ / ﻿44.372944°N 100.338722°W﻿ / 44.372944; -100.338722
The District of Columbia Archives, formally, the Office of Public Records Management, Archival Administration, and Library of Governmental Information, is the state-level archives of the District of Columbia.[1] Its principal archival holdings reside in a converted stable in the Blagden Alley-Naylor Court Historic District and its much larger collection of retained records sit in leased space at the Washington National Records Center and in various D.C. government office buildings.
A federal district is a type of administrative division of a federation, usually under the direct control of a federal government and organized sometimes with a single municipal body. Federal districts often include capital districts, and they exist in various federations worldwide.
An electoral district, also known as an election district, legislative district, voting district, constituency, riding, ward, division, or (election) precinct is a subdivision of a larger state (a country, administrative region, or other polity) created to provide its population with representation in the larger state's legislative body. That body, or the state's constitution or a body established for that purpose, determines each district's boundaries and whether each will be represented by a single member or multiple members. Generally, only voters (constituents) who reside within the district are permitted to vote in an election held there. District representatives may be elected by a first-past-the-post system, a proportional representative system, or another voting method. They may be selected by a direct election under universal suffrage, an indirect election, or another form of suffrage.
Census divisions, in Canada and the United States, are areas delineated for the purposes of statistical analysis and presentation; they have no government in and of themselves. The census divisions of Canada are second-level census geographic unit, below provinces and territories, and above "census subdivisions" and "dissemination areas". In provinces where they exist, the census division may correspond to a county, a regional municipality or a regional district.[1]
Zhou (Chinese: 州; pinyin: zhōu; lit. 'land') were historical administrative and political divisions of China. Formally established during the Han dynasty, zhou existed continuously until the establishment of the Republic of China[citation needed] in 1912—a period of over 2000 years. Zhou were also previously used in Korea (Korean: 주, ju), Vietnam (Vietnamese: châu), and Japan (Hepburn: shū).
A syssel is a historical type of country subdivision in Denmark and elsewhere in Scandinavia. The mediaeval Danish sysler may be compared to the fylker of Norway, the landskaps of Sweden and Finland, the shires of England and Scotland, and the Gaue of the Holy Roman Empire. A syssel was subdivided into a number of hundreds or herreder.
Danish overseas colonies  and Dano-Norwegian colonies (Danish: De danske kolonier) were the colonies that Denmark–Norway (Denmark after 1814) possessed from 1536 until 1953. At its apex, the colonies spanned four continents: Africa, Asia, Europe, and North America.[1]
The traditional districts of Denmark differ from the country's administrative country subdivisions nowadays, as their existence and extent are usually not defined by law. The Danes will often refer to their traditional districts if asked where they come from, rather than the administrative unit which have been changed several times (last in 2007).
In the period preceding the Municipal Reform of 1970, Denmark was divided into around 170 hundreds (Danish: herred, plural: herreder). In the timeframe 1793 through 1970, each parish was functioning as a municipality within their respective hundreds. The hundreds were in turn part of a county. This was changed in 1970, when the parishes were merged into larger municipalities sometimes crossing hundred borders, and the hundreds fell out of administrative use.
The Counties of Denmark (Danish: Danmarks amter) were former subdivisions of metropolitan Denmark and overseas territories, used primarily for administrative regions, with each county having its own council with substantial powers. Originally there had been twenty-four counties, but the number was reduced to roughly fourteen in 1970 – the number fluctuated slightly over the next three decades. In 2006 there were thirteen traditional counties as well as three municipalities with county status (the island of Bornholm, which was a county from 1660 until 2002, became a regional municipality with county powers, but only briefly from 2003 until 2006). On 1 January 2007 the counties were abolished and replaced by five larger regions which, unlike the counties, are not municipalities.
Coordinates: 56°N 10°E﻿ / ﻿56°N 10°E﻿ / 56; 10
The Middle East Treaty Organization (METO), also known as the Baghdad Pact and subsequently known as the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO), was a military alliance of the Cold War. It was formed in 24 February 1955 by Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, Turkey, and the United Kingdom. The alliance was dissolved in 16 March 1979.
The Ministry of Internal Affairs of the USSR (MVD; Russian: Министерство внутренних дел СССР (МВД)) was the interior ministry of the Soviet Union from 1946 to 1991.
The flags of the Soviet Socialist Republics were all defaced versions of the flag of the Soviet Union, which featured a golden hammer and sickle and a gold-bordered red star (the only exception being the Georgian SSR, which used a red hammer and sickle and a fully red star) on a red field.
This is a list of flags used in or otherwise associated with Uruguay.
This is a list of flags used in Colombia. For more information about the national flag, visit the article Flag of Colombia.
This is a list of flags used in Chile. For more information about the national flag, visit the article Flag of Chile.
Flags of the World (abbreviated FOTW or FotW) is an Internet-based vexillological association and resource.[4] Its principal project is the Internet's largest website devoted to vexillology, containing comprehensive information about various flags,[1] and an associated mailing list. The mailing list began as a discussion group in about September 1993, while the website was founded by Giuseppe Bottasini in late 1994, and Rob Raeside took over as director in 1998.[5] Flags of the World became the 56th member of the FIAV in 2001.[1]
This gallery shows the coat of arms (or an emblem serving a similar purpose) of each of the Dependent territories in the list of countries.
The unofficial coat of arms of Wallis and Futuna consists of elements from the unofficial flag of Wallis and Futuna featuring a red saltire on a white square, which in turn is placed on a red field (alternatively, a larger white cross pattée is used). The cross is placed on the lower right; the flag of France outlined in white on two sides is in the upper left quadrant.[1][2] The coat of arms, like the flag, is unofficial.[1][2]
Heraldry is a discipline relating to the design, display and study of armorial bearings (known as armory), as well as related disciplines, such as vexillology, together with the study of ceremony, rank and pedigree.[1][2] Armory, the best-known branch of heraldry, concerns the design and transmission of the heraldic achievement. The achievement, or armorial bearings usually includes a coat of arms on a shield, helmet and crest, together with any accompanying devices, such as supporters, badges, heraldic banners and mottoes.[3]
For the purposes of this article, heraldry societies are defined as private associations of people who are interested in heraldry. Heraldic authorities, which have been established by reigning monarchs or governments, are dealt with in a separate article.
The Heraldry Society of New Zealand, established in 1962, is the principal New Zealand learned society concerned with the scholarly study of heraldry.[1]
This is a list of Government Houses of New Zealand. The two maintained Government Houses serve as residences for the governor-general, serving as the official place of business for the administration, as well as venues for many receptions and state functions.  Sometimes, Government House is used to refer metonymically to the office of governor-general.
A Government House is any residence used by Governors-General, Governors and Lieutenant-Governors in the Commonwealth and the British Empire. Government Houses serve as the venue for Governors’ official business, as well as the many receptions and functions hosted by the occupant. Sometimes, the term Government House is used as a metonym for the Governor or his office.
This is a list of topics related to the British Empire.
The Pageant of Empire was name given to various historical pageants celebrating the British Empire which were held in Britain during the early twentieth century. For example there was a small Pageant of Empire at the town of Builth Wells in 1909. In 1911 a giant Pageant of Empire took place at the Festival of Empire at the Crystal Palace in Sydenham, where thousands of amateur performers acted out historical scenes[1] The most notable was the Pageant of Empire which took place in London in 1924.
Imperial March is a piece for full orchestra written by the English composer Edward Elgar to celebrate the Diamond Jubilee of Queen Victoria in 1897, as his Op. 32.
The Elgar Society was founded in 1951 to promote performance of the music of British composer Edward Elgar, especially the more rarely performed items. Registered as a charity on 22 January 1988, It is particularly concerned with introducing the composer and his music to younger audiences and, by making grants to appropriate educational activities, to enhance the quality of life of members of the public.  It also supports the Elgar Birthplace Museum with an annual grant with the objective of widening accessibility to the location and its contents and encouraging research.
The Stoeger Prize from the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center is an international music prize for composers of chamber music. The US$25,000 cash award is given every two years in recognition of significant contributions to the chamber music repertory.[1] The money was donated by Milan Stoeger, a psychoanalyst and a long-time subscriber to the Chamber Music Society, in honor of his wife.[2] The Elise L. Stoeger Prize was established in 1987.[2]
The Richard Tucker Music Foundation, founded in 1975, carries the name of Richard Tucker. The foundation is a "non-profit cultural organization dedicated to perpetuating the artistic legacy of the great American tenor through the support and advancement of the careers of talented American opera singers by bringing opera into the community. The Foundation seeks to heighten appreciation for opera by offering free performances in the New York metropolitan area and by supporting music education enrichment programs."[1][failed verification]
The Primrose International Viola Competition (PIVC), also referred to as the Primrose Memorial Scholarship Competition (PMSC), is an international music competition for viola players sponsored by the American Viola Society and named for the 20th-century virtuoso William Primrose.
The Carl Flesch International Violin Competition (also known as the International Competition for Violinists "Carl Flesch" and the City of London International Competition for Violin and Viola (Carl Flesch Medal)) was an international music competition for violinists, and later viola players, held between 1945 and 1992 in London.[1][2][3][4] Founded in honour of the Hungarian violinist Carl Flesch, it was originally organised by the Guildhall School of Music and Drama and after 1968 formed part of the City of London Festival. Particularly in the City of London Festival era, it was regarded as among the "most prestigious" competitions for string players,[3] and "one of the most important testing grounds for aspiring soloists up to the age of 32."[4]
Ondine is a Finnish classical record label founded in 1985 in Helsinki, Finland. Its catalogue with several award-winning releases includes over 600 titles with major Finnish and international artists.
MusicBrainz is a MetaBrainz project that aims to create a collaborative music database that is similar to the freedb project. MusicBrainz was founded in response to the restrictions placed on the Compact Disc Database (CDDB), a database for software applications to look up audio CD information on the Internet. MusicBrainz has expanded its goals to reach beyond a CD metadata (this is information about the performers, artists, songwriters, etc.) storehouse to become a structured online database for music.[4][5]
A tag editor is an app that can add, edit, or remove embedded metadata on multimedia file formats. Content creators, such as musicians, photographers, podcasters, and video producers, may need to properly label and manage their creations, adding such details as title, creator, date of creation, and copyright notice.
Windows Media Video (WMV) is a series of video codecs and their corresponding video coding formats developed by Microsoft. It is part of the Windows Media framework. WMV consists of three distinct codecs: The original video compression technology known as WMV, was originally designed for Internet streaming applications, as a competitor to RealVideo. The other compression technologies, WMV Screen and WMV Image, cater for specialized content. After standardization by the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers (SMPTE),[1][2] WMV version 9 was adapted for physical-delivery formats such as HD DVD and Blu-ray Disc and became known as VC-1.[3][4] Microsoft also developed a digital container format called Advanced Systems Format to store video encoded by Windows Media Video.
YULS or YUVsoft's Lossless Video Codec, a lossless video codec developed by YUVsoft, was designed to produce highly compressed lossless video. Compared with many[quantify] lossless video codecs, YULS has the best compression ratio.[dubious  – discuss][1]
The MSU Lossless Video Codec is a video codec developed by the Graphics & Media Lab Video Group of Moscow State University. It was designed to provide space-effective lossless video compression. As of 2007 MSU had the second best compression ratio when compared to many other lossless video codecs,[1] with the better result shown by YULS codec.
Lagarith is an open source lossless video codec written by Ben Greenwood.[1] It is a fork of the code of HuffYUV and offers better compression at the cost of greatly reduced speed on uniprocessor systems.[2][3] Lagarith was designed and written with a few aims in mind:
Huffyuv (or HuffYUV) is a lossless video codec created by Ben Rudiak-Gould which is meant to replace uncompressed YCbCr as a video capture format. The codec can also compress in the RGB color space.
FFV1 (short for FF Video 1[1]) is a lossless intra-frame video coding format. It can use either variable-length coding or arithmetic coding for entropy coding. The encoder and decoder are part of the free, open-source library libavcodec in the project FFmpeg since June 2003.[2] FFV1 is also included in ffdshow and LAV Filters,[3] which makes the video codec available to Microsoft Windows applications that support system-wide codecs over Video for Windows (VfW) or DirectShow.
FFV1 is particularly popular for its performance regarding speed and size, compared to other lossless preservation codecs, such as M-JPEG2000.[4][5][6]
The European Broadcasting Union (EBU) lists FFV1 under the codec-family index "31" in their combined list of video codec references.[7]
Windows Media Encoder (WME) is a discontinued, freeware media encoder developed by Microsoft which enables content developers to convert or capture both live and prerecorded audio, video, and computer screen images to Windows Media formats for live and on-demand delivery. It is the successor of NetShow Encoder.[2] The download page reports that it is not supported on Windows 7.[1] WME has been replaced by a free version of Microsoft Expression Encoder. The Media 8 Encoding Utility is still listed. WME was available in both 32-bit and 64-bit versions.[3]
On2 Technologies, formerly known as The Duck Corporation,[1] was a small publicly traded company (on the American Stock Exchange), founded in New York City in 1992[2] and headquartered in Clifton Park, New York, that designed video codec technology. It created a series of video codecs called TrueMotion (including TrueMotion S, TrueMotion 2, TrueMotion RT 2.0,[3] TrueMotion VP3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8).
The following is a list of compression formats and related codecs.
A codec is a device or computer program that encodes or decodes a data stream or signal.[1][2][3] Codec is a portmanteau of coder/decoder.[4]
In information theory, redundancy measures the fractional difference between the entropy H(X) of an ensemble X, and its maximum possible value 



log
⁡
(

|




A



X



|

)


{\displaystyle \log(|{\mathcal {A}}_{X}|)}

.[1][2] Informally, it is the amount of wasted "space" used to transmit certain data. Data compression is a way to reduce or eliminate unwanted redundancy, while forward error correction is a way of adding desired redundancy for purposes of error detection and correction when communicating over a noisy channel of limited capacity.
Rate–distortion theory is a major branch of information theory which provides the theoretical foundations for lossy data compression; it addresses the problem of determining the minimal number of bits per symbol, as measured by the rate R, that should be communicated over a channel, so that the source (input signal) can be approximately reconstructed at the receiver (output signal) without exceeding an expected distortion D.
In algorithmic information theory (a subfield of computer science and mathematics), the Kolmogorov complexity of an object, such as a piece of text, is the length of a shortest computer program (in a predetermined programming language) that produces the object as output. It is a measure of the computational resources needed to specify the object, and is also known as algorithmic complexity, Solomonoff–Kolmogorov–Chaitin complexity, program-size complexity, descriptive complexity, or algorithmic entropy. It is named after Andrey Kolmogorov, who first published on the subject in 1963 [1][2] and is a generalization of classical information theory.
Information theory is the scientific study of the quantification, storage, and communication of information.[1] The field was originally established by the works of Harry Nyquist and Ralph Hartley, in the 1920s, and Claude Shannon in the 1940s.[2]: vii  The field is at the intersection of probability theory, statistics, computer science, statistical mechanics, information engineering, and electrical engineering.
Operations research (British English: operational research) (U.S. Air Force Specialty Code: Operations Analysis), often shortened to the initialism OR, is a discipline that deals with the development and application of analytical methods to improve decision-making.[1] It is considered to be a subfield of mathematical sciences.[2] The term management science is occasionally used as a synonym.[3]
Heterodox
Human science (or human sciences in the plural), also known as humanistic social science and moral science (or moral sciences), studies the philosophical, biological, social, and cultural aspects of human life.[1] Human science aims to expand our understanding of the human world through a broad interdisciplinary approach. It encompasses a wide range of fields - including history, philosophy, sociology, psychology, justice studies, evolutionary biology, biochemistry, neurosciences, folkloristics, and anthropology.[2] It is the study and interpretation of the experiences, activities, constructs, and artifacts associated with human beings. The study of the human sciences attempts to expand and enlighten the human being's knowledge of its existence, its interrelationship with other species and systems, and the development of artifacts to perpetuate the human expression and thought. It is the study of human phenomena. The study of the human experience is historical and current in nature. It requires the evaluation and interpretation of the historic human experience and the analysis of current human activity to gain an understanding of human phenomena and to project the outlines of human evolution. Human science is the objective, informed critique of human existence and how it relates to reality.
Knowledge and Human Interests (German: Erkenntnis und Interesse) is a 1968 book by the German philosopher Jürgen Habermas, in which the author discusses the development of the modern natural and human sciences. He criticizes Sigmund Freud, arguing that psychoanalysis is a branch of the humanities rather than a science, and provides a critique of the philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche.
The Habermas–Rawls debate is the exchange which took place between John Rawls and Jürgen Habermas in The Journal of Philosophy in 1995.[1][2]
Old Europe, New Europe, Core Europe: Transatlantic Relations After the Iraq War documents for Anglophone readers the debate that took place among a number of European intellectuals in response to the manifesto by Jürgen Habermas and Jacques Derrida calling for Europe to come together around a common foreign and security policy to provide a counterweight to the "hegemonic unilateralism" of the United States.  The book was first published in 2005 by Verso Books.[1] The book was edited by Daniel Levy, Max Pensky, and John Torpey; contributors include Umberto Eco, Susan Sontag, Richard Rorty, Timothy Garton Ash, Ralf Dahrendorf, Gianni Vattimo, Adam Krzemiński, and many others.[1][2][3]
A Berlin Republic (German: Die Normalität einer Berliner Republik. Kleine Politische Schriften VIII) is a 1997 book composed of a collection of transcripts of interviews with the German philosopher and social critic Jürgen Habermas conducted by various European media in the mid-1990s. The common thread of the interviews is Habermas's disagreement with resurgent German nationalism after the reunification with the former German Democratic Republic (GDR).
The Inclusion of the Other (German: Die Einbeziehung des Anderen. Studien zur politischen Theorie) is 1996 book by the German philosopher Jürgen Habermas.
Between Facts and Norms (German: Faktizität und Geltung) is a 1992 book on deliberative politics by the German political philosopher Jürgen Habermas. The culmination of the project that Habermas began with The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere in 1962, it represents a lifetime of political thought on the nature of democracy and law.
The Philosophical Discourse of Modernity: Twelve Lectures (German: Der Philosophische Diskurs der Moderne: Zwölf Vorlesungen) is a 1985 book by the philosopher Jürgen Habermas, in which the author reconstructs and deals in depth with a number of philosophical approaches to the critique of modern reason and the Enlightenment "project" since Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and Friedrich Nietzsche, including the work of 20th century philosophers Max Horkheimer, Theodor Adorno, Martin Heidegger, Michel Foucault, Jacques Derrida, Cornelius Castoriadis and Niklas Luhmann. The work is regarded as an important contribution to Frankfurt School critical theory. It has been characterized as a critical (largely negative) evaluation of the concept of world disclosure in modern philosophy.[1]
The Theory of Communicative Action (German: Theorie des kommunikativen Handelns) is a two-volume 1981 book by the philosopher Jürgen Habermas, in which the author continues his project of finding a way to ground "the social sciences in a theory of language",[1] which had been set out in On the Logic of the Social Sciences (1967).[1][2] The two volumes are Reason and the Rationalization of Society (Handlungsrationalität und gesellschaftliche Rationalisierung),[3] in which Habermas establishes a concept of communicative rationality,[4] and Lifeworld and System: A Critique of Functionalist Reason (Zur Kritik der funktionalistischen Vernunft),[5] in which Habermas creates the two level concept of society and lays out the critical theory for modernity.[4]
Legitimation Crisis (German: Legitimationsprobleme im Spätkapitalismus) is a 1973 book by the philosopher Jürgen Habermas. It was published in English in 1975 by Beacon Press, translated and with an introduction by Thomas McCarthy. It was originally published by Suhrkamp.[1] The title refers to a decline in the confidence of administrative functions, institutions, or leadership: a legitimation crisis.[2] The direct translation of its German title is Legitimation Problems in Late Capitalism. In this book, published five years after Knowledge and Human Interests, Habermas explored the fundamental crisis tendencies in the state-managed capitalism. Before the state-managed capitalism, states are primarily concerned with maintaining the market economy, while in the state-managed capitalism, states have additional roles such as providing a social healthcare, pensions, educations, and so on. The expanded scopes of state administrations and influence helped managing crisis tendency of capitalism in economic field, but it created another crisis tendency in political as well as social-cultural field, which is legitimation crisis and motivation crisis, respectively
The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere: An Inquiry into a Category of Bourgeois Society (German: Strukturwandel der Öffentlichkeit. Untersuchungen zu einer Kategorie der bürgerlichen Gesellschaft) is a 1962 book by the philosopher Jürgen Habermas. It was translated into English in 1989 by Thomas Burger and Frederick Lawrence. An important contribution to modern understanding of democracy, it is notable for "transforming media studies into a hard-headed discipline."[1]
"Instrumental" and "value-rational action" are terms scholars use to identify two kinds of behavior that humans can engage in.  Scholars call using means that "work" as tools, instrumental action, and pursuing ends that are "right" as legitimate ends, value-rational action.
The fact–value distinction is a fundamental epistemological distinction described between:[1]
Pierre Maurice Marie Duhem (French: [pjɛʁ mɔʁis maʁi dy.ɛm, - moʁ-] (listen); 9 June[4] 1861 – 14 September 1916) was a French theoretical physicist who worked on thermodynamics, hydrodynamics, and the theory of elasticity.  Duhem was also a historian of science, noted for his work on the European Middle Ages, which is regarded as having created the field of the history of medieval science.[5] As a philosopher of science, he is remembered principally for his views on the indeterminacy of experimental criteria (see Duhem–Quine thesis).
South Asia
Human migration is the movement of people from one place to another with intentions of settling, permanently or temporarily, at a new location (geographic region). The movement often occurs over long distances and from one country to another (external migration), but internal migration (within a single country) is also possible; indeed, this is the dominant form of human migration globally.[1] Migration is often associated with better human capital at both individual and household level, and with better access to migration networks, facilitating a possible second move.[2] It has a high potential to improve human development, and some studies confirm that migration is the most direct route out of poverty.[3]Age is also important for both work and non-work migration.[4] People may migrate as individuals, in family units or in large groups.[5] There are four major forms of migration: invasion, conquest, colonization and emigration/immigration.[6]
In agricultural economics and development economics, Bennett's law observes that as incomes rise, people eat relatively fewer calorie-dense starchy staple foods and relatively more nutrient-dense meats, oils, sweeteners, fruits, and vegetables. Bennett's law is related to Engel's law, which considers the relationship between rising household incomes and total food spending.
The World Population Foundation (WPF) was founded in 1987 in the Netherlands by Diana and Roy W. Brown. Their purpose was to create an organisation to draw attention to the effects of high birth rates and rapid population growth on maternal and infant mortality, communities and the environment, and to raise funds for population projects and programmes, with the ultimate aim of reducing world poverty and improving the quality of life of the world’s poorest people.
World Population Day is an annual event, observed on July 11 every year, which seeks to raise awareness of global population issues. The event was established by the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme in 1989.[2] It was inspired by the public interest in Five Billion Day on July 11, 1987, the approximate date on which the world's population reached five billion people. World Population Day aims to increase people's awareness on various population issues such as the importance of family planning, gender equality, poverty, maternal health and human rights.[3]
A holiday is a day or other period of time set aside for festivals or recreation. Public holidays are set by public authorities and vary by state or region. Religious holidays are set by religious organisations for their members and are often also observed as public holidays in religious majority countries. Some religious holidays such as Christmas have become or are becoming secularised by part or all of those who observe it. In addition to secularisation, many holidays have become commercialised due to the growth of industry.[1]
This is a list of motels. A motel is lodging designed for motorists, and usually has a parking area for motor vehicles. Entering dictionaries after World War II, the word motel, coined in 1925 as a portmanteau of motor and hotel or motorists' hotel, referred initially to a type of hotel consisting of a single building of connected rooms whose doors faced a parking lot and, in some circumstances, a common area; or a series of small cabins with common parking. Several large motel chains exist, while conversely others are small businesses with one location that are privately owned. The first motel in the world is the Motel Inn of San Luis Obispo, California.[1][2]
This is a list of hotel-related list articles.
This is a list of top 100 cities ranked by the number of international visitors, including all international arrivals by land, air, and sea, for tourist or business purposes. The consulting firm Euromonitor and the financial services corporation Mastercard define the concept of the foreign visitor differently thus their respective rankings differ.
Coordinates: 32°N 6°W﻿ / ﻿32°N 6°W﻿ / 32; -6
Uganda became an independent sovereign state on 9 October 1962. The British monarch, Elizabeth II, remained head of state as Queen of Uganda until the link with the British monarchy was severed on 9 October 1963 and the Kabaka (King) of Buganda, Sir Edward Mutesa II, became the first President of Uganda.
The Federation of Nigeria was a predecessor to modern-day Nigeria from 1954 to 1963. It was a British protectorate until its independence on 1 October 1960.
Coordinates: 20°12′S 57°30′E﻿ / ﻿20.2°S 57.5°E﻿ / -20.2; 57.5
The State of Malta (Maltese: Stat ta’ Malta), commonly known as Malta, was the predecessor to the modern-day Republic of Malta. It existed between 21 September 1964 and 13 December 1974.
Elizabeth II was Queen of Uganda as well as the head of state of Uganda from 1962 to 1963, when the country was an independent constitutional monarchy. She was also the sovereign of other countries in the Commonwealth of Nations, including the United Kingdom.
Queen Elizabeth cake is a lightly sweet, moist, and low-fat date cake, topped with a brown sugar, butter and broiled coconut mixture.[1] "Queen Elizabeth cake" is named after the Queen of Canada, Elizabeth II, and may have first been made in 1953 for her coronation. Another account holds that it was invented for the  1937 coronation of King George VI and Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother. Despite its unsettled origin, the dessert gained national popularity in the 1950s and remains a Canadian staple.[2]
Rosa 'Queen Elizabeth' is a pink Grandiflora rose cultivar, bred by  rose grower, Dr. Walter Lammerts in the United States in 1954.  The rose variety is very popular worldwide and has won numerous awards, including "World's Favorite Rose", (1979).[1]
The city of Portland, Oregon is ideal for growing roses outdoors due to its location within the marine west coast climate region, its warm, dry summers and rainy but mild winters, and its heavy clay soils.[1][2][3] Portland has been known as the City of Roses, or Rose City, since 1888, after Madame Caroline Testout, a large pink variety of hybrid tea rose bred in France, was introduced to the city. Thousands of rose bushes were planted, eventually lining 20 miles (32 km) of Portland's streets in preparation for the Lewis and Clark Centennial Exposition in 1905.[4]
Within Catholicism, a miracle of the roses is a miracle in which roses manifest an activity of God or of a saint.[1] Such a miracle is presented in various hagiographies and legends in different forms,[2] and it occurs in connection with diverse individuals such as Saints Elizabeth of Hungary (1207–1231), Elizabeth of Portugal (1271–1336), Saint Dorothy, a 4th-century virgin martyr at Caesarea in Cappadocia (died ca. 311), and Our Lady of Guadalupe (appeared in 1531).
Miguel Sánchez (1594–1674) was a Novohispanic priest, writer and theologian. He is most renowned as the author of the 1648 publication Imagen de la Virgen María, a description and theological interpretation of an apparition to Juan Diego of the Virgin Mary as Our Lady of Guadalupe which is the first published narrative of the event.  The precise nature of the cult before that date and whether the tradition as to the apparition dates back to 1531 (as Sánchez claims), constitute a vexed historical problem.  The existence of a cult of the Virgin Mary at a chapel (or ermita) at Tepeyac, focussed on a painted cult image of the Virgin and enjoying a reputation for miraculous healing, was certainly established by 1556.[1] Professor Brading, a scholar of Mexican history, noted of Sánchez: "even if he did not initiate the devotion, he determined the manner in which the image was exalted and justified."[2]
Marcos Cipac de Aquino (?–1572),  informally known as Marcos the Indian, was a Roman Catholic Nahuatl artist in sixteenth-century Mexico, who may have been the painter of the image of the Virgin of Guadalupe. Art historian Jeanette Favrot Peterson has ventured "Marcos Cipac (de Aquino) was the artist of the Mexican Guadalupe, capable of executing a large Marian painting on cloth within a professional milieu that was abundantly stock to stimulate his innate artistry.".[1] The basis of her conjecture is evidence in the Anales de Juan Bautista, a manuscript housed in the Biblioteca Boturini of the Basilica of Guadalupe and translated and published in 2001.[2][3] Mexican scholars of the nineteenth century posited the painting's artist as Marcos Cipac de Aquino, including Joaquín García Icazbalceta in his "Carta acerca del Origen de la Imagen de Nuestra Sra. de Guadalupe" (1883) and Francisco del Paso y Troncoso's "Noticia del indio Marcos y de otros pintores del siglo XVI" (1891).[4]  There is some skepticism about the identification of the painting with Cipac Aquino.[5][6][7][8] He is identified by a 1556 sermon, which  referred to him only as Marcos. This sermon came to light only in 1888. Marcos de Aquino is credited with the painting also by Leoncio Garza-Valdés[9] on the basis of a scientific investigation.
Tonantzin (Classical Nahuatl: Tonāntzin [toˈnáːn.tsin]) is a Nahuatl title composed of to- "our" + nān "mother" + -tzin "(honorific suffix)". When addressing Tonantzin directly, males use the suffixed vocative form Tonāntziné [toˌnaːntsinˈé], and females use the unsuffixed vocative form Tonāntzín [tonaːnˈtsín].
Tepeyac (Spanish: El milagro de Tepeyac, lit. 'The Miracle  from Tepeyac') is a 1917 film directed by José Manuel Ramos,  Carlos E. Gonzáles and  Fernando Sáyago[1] rescued by Aurelio de los Reyes and restored by National Autonomous University of Mexico.
Maravilla Americana[1] (English: American Marvel) is a commentary written in 1756 by Miguel Cabrera on the portrait Our Lady of Guadalupe, a revered image of the Blessed Virgin Mary.  The portrait is located in the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico City.
Informaciones Jurídicas de 1666 (English: The Proceedings of 1666) is a Spanish document that helped support the apparition of the Virgin Mary to Juan Diego Cuauhtlatoatzin at the hill of Tepeyac in 1531. The apparition is also known today as the iconic Virgin of Guadalupe. The Proceedings of 1666 consist of a series of investigations, record examinations, testimonies from artists, physicians, and Aztec historians, and oral accounts from elderly men and women who had knowledge and experience with Juan Diego and his contemporaries.[1]
Huei Tlamahuiçoltica ("The Great Event")[1] is a tract in Nahuatl comprising 36 pages and was published in Mexico City, Mexico in 1649 by Luis Laso de la Vega, the vicar of the chapel of Our Lady of Guadalupe at Tepeyac outside the same city. In the preface Luis Laso de la Vega claimed authorship of the whole work, but this claim is the subject of an ongoing difference of scholarly opinion.[2]
Image of the Virgin Mary Mother of God of Guadalupe published in 1648, was the first written account of the story of Our Lady of Guadalupe. It retells events from more than a century earlier that led to the marian veneration in Mexico City, New Spain. It was drafted by the secular priest Miguel Sánchez and dedicated to bishop Don Pedro of Barrientos, based on the prophecy of the Apocalypse[clarification needed] 12.[1][2]
The Stradanus engraving is a 1615 or 1621 (depending on the source) engraving that was used to print certificates of indulgences of forty days' remission of sins from Juan Pérez de la Serna, then Archbishop of Mexico.  The certificates were given to people who donated money to finance the construction of the new sanctuary of Tepeyac, consecrated in 1622, which later became the Basilica of Guadalupe.  Its actual title is Virgen de Guadalupe con escenas de ocho milagros (Spanish: Virgin of Guadalupe with scenes of eight miracles), but the term "Stradanus engraving" is used by Guadalupan researchers.
Codex Escalada (or Codex 1548) is a sheet of parchment signed with a date of "1548", on which there have been drawn, in ink and in the European style, images (with supporting Nahuatl text) depicting the Marian apparition of Our Lady of Guadalupe to Juan Diego which allegedly occurred on four separate occasions in December 1531 on the hill of Tepeyac north of central Mexico City.  If authentic, and if correctly dated to the mid-16th century (as tests so far conducted indicate), the document fills a gap in the documentary record as to the antiquity of the tradition regarding those apparitions and of the image of the Virgin associated with the fourth apparition which is venerated at the Basilica of Guadalupe.  The parchment first came to light in 1995, and in 2002 was named in honour of Fr. Xavier Escalada S.J. who brought it to public attention and who published it in 1997.
The Basilica of Santa María de Guadalupe, officially called Insigne y Nacional Basílica de Santa María de Guadalupe (in English: Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe) is a sanctuary of the Catholic Church, dedicated to the Virgin Mary in her invocation of Guadalupe, located at the foot of the Hill of Tepeyac in the Gustavo A. Madero borough of Mexico City. It belongs to the Primate Archdiocese of Mexico through the Guadalupana Vicariate, which since November 4, 2018, is in the care of Monsignor Salvador Martínez Ávila, who has the title of general and episcopal vicar of Guadalupe and abbot of the basilica.[2]
Greater Mexico City (Zona Metropolitana del Valle de México), a metropolitan area with more than 19 million inhabitants including Mexico's capital (Ciudad de México, or CDMX) with about 9 million inhabitants, faces tremendous water challenges. These include groundwater overexploitation, land subsidence,[1] the risk of major flooding, the impacts of increasing urbanization, poor water quality, inefficient water use, a low share of wastewater treatment, health concerns about the reuse of wastewater in agriculture, and limited cost recovery. Overcoming these challenges is complicated by fragmented responsibilities for water management in Greater Mexico City:
The presence of street vendors in Mexico City (known locally in Mexican Spanish as ambulantes) dates back to pre-Hispanic era and over the centuries the government has struggled to control it, with most recently a clearing of downtown streets of vendors in 2007, but despite this there is a persistent presence of many thousands illegally.[1] Even after oscillating between  the realms of legality and illegality, street vending in Mexico and even in other parts of the world, is not the exception but rather has been a norm when it comes to commercial activities.[2] In 2003, it was estimated that there were 199,328 street vendors in Mexico City.[3]
Parking in Mexico City is a mix of street parking controlled by franeleros or parking space holders, but in some areas meters have been introduced. According to a survey by IBM, Mexico City had North America's worst parking and tied for 10th worst in the world, to IBM's survey, with 73 per cent of drivers in Mexico City having had to abandon their search for parking at some point during the previous 12 months.[1]
The Barrios Mágicos are twenty one areas in Mexico City highlighted by the government in order to attract tourism to them.  The program is sponsored by the city government and is patterned after the “Pueblos Mágicos” (Magical Towns) program of the Mexican federal government.[1][2] However, one difference is that the city does not require the “barrios” to make improvements in their appearances to be accepted.[1]
Greater Mexico City refers to the conurbation around Mexico City, officially called Metropolitan Area of the Valley of Mexico (Spanish: Zona metropolitana del Valle de México).[2] It encompasses Mexico City itself and 60 adjacent municipalities of the State of Mexico and Hidalgo.
Veracruz (American Spanish: [beɾaˈkɾus] (listen)), formally Veracruz de Ignacio de la Llave (American Spanish: [beɾaˈkɾuz ðe iɣˈnasjo ðe la ˈʝaβe]), officially the Free and Sovereign State of Veracruz de Ignacio de la Llave (Spanish: Estado Libre y Soberano de Veracruz de Ignacio de la Llave), is one of the 31 states which, along with Mexico City, comprise the 32 Federal Entities of Mexico. Located in eastern Mexico, Veracruz is bordered by seven states, which are Tamaulipas, San Luis Potosí, Hidalgo, Puebla, Oaxaca, Chiapas, and Tabasco. Veracruz is divided into 212 municipalities, and its capital city is Xalapa-Enríquez.
Zacatecas ([sakaˈtekas] (listen)), officially the Free and Sovereign State of Zacatecas (Spanish: Estado Libre y Soberano de Zacatecas), is one of the 31 states of Mexico. It is divided into 58 municipalities and its capital city is Zacatecas.
Anzoátegui State (Spanish: Estado Anzoátegui, IPA: [esˈtaðo ansoˈateɣi]) is one of the 23 states of Venezuela, located in the northeastern region of the country. Anzoátegui is well known for its beaches that attract many visitors. Its coast consists of a single beach approximately 100 km (62 mi) long. Its capital is the city of Barcelona, and significant cities include Puerto la Cruz and El Tigre.
Valdivia (Spanish pronunciation: [balˈdiβja]; Mapuche: Ainil) is a city and commune in southern Chile, administered by the Municipality of Valdivia. The city is named after its founder, Pedro de Valdivia, and is located at the confluence of the Calle-Calle, Valdivia, and Cau-Cau Rivers, approximately 15 km (9 mi) east of the coastal towns of Corral and Niebla. Since October 2007, Valdivia has been the capital of Los Ríos Region and is also the capital of Valdivia Province. The national census of 2017 recorded the commune of Valdivia as having 166,080[citation needed] inhabitants (Valdivianos), of whom  150,048  were living in the city.[4] The main economic activities of Valdivia include tourism, wood pulp manufacturing, forestry, metallurgy, and beer production. The city is also the home of the Austral University of Chile, founded in 1954 and the Centro de Estudios Científicos.
Copiapó (Spanish pronunciation: [kopjaˈpo]) is a city and commune in northern Chile, located about 65 kilometers east of the coastal town of Caldera. Founded on December 8, 1744, it is the capital of Copiapó Province and Atacama Region.
Calama is a city and commune in the Atacama Desert in northern Chile. It is the capital of El Loa Province, part of the Antofagasta Region. Calama is one of the driest cities in the world with average annual precipitation of just 5 mm (0.20 in)[citation needed]. The River Loa, Chile's longest, flows through the city. Calama has a population of 147,886 (2012 census).
Valdivia (Spanish pronunciation: [balˈdiβja]; Mapuche: Ainil) is a city and commune in southern Chile, administered by the Municipality of Valdivia. The city is named after its founder, Pedro de Valdivia, and is located at the confluence of the Calle-Calle, Valdivia, and Cau-Cau Rivers, approximately 15 km (9 mi) east of the coastal towns of Corral and Niebla. Since October 2007, Valdivia has been the capital of Los Ríos Region and is also the capital of Valdivia Province. The national census of 2017 recorded the commune of Valdivia as having 166,080[citation needed] inhabitants (Valdivianos), of whom  150,048  were living in the city.[4] The main economic activities of Valdivia include tourism, wood pulp manufacturing, forestry, metallurgy, and beer production. The city is also the home of the Austral University of Chile, founded in 1954 and the Centro de Estudios Científicos.
Los Ángeles (Spanish pronunciation: [los ˈaŋxeles]) is the capital of the province of Bío Bío, in the commune of the same name, in Bío Bío, in the center-south of Chile. It is located between the Laja and Biobío rivers. The population is 186,671 inhabitants (census 2012). The municipality ("comuna") of Los Ángeles has the highest absolute rural population of any Chilean municipality.
Coordinates: 36°37′15″S 72°07′20″W﻿ / ﻿36.6208787°S 72.12234341°W﻿ / -36.6208787; -72.12234341
The Ñuble Region (Spanish: Región de Ñuble), officially the Region of Ñuble (Spanish: Región de Ñuble), is — since 5 September 2018[3] – one of Chile's sixteen regions. It spans an area of 13,178.5 km2 (5,088 sq mi), making it the smallest region in Chile in terms of area, and is administratively constituted by 21 communes.[4] It has a population of 480,609 inhabitants.[1] Its capital is the city of Chillán.
San Fabián is the easternmost of 21 communes in the Punilla Province of central Chile's. Ñuble Region. The capital is the town of San Fabián de Alico. The commune spans an area of 1,568.3 km2 (606 sq mi).[3]
Tirúa (Spanish pronunciation: [tiˈɾu.a]) is a Chilean commune and town in Arauco Province, Biobío Region. The 2010 Chile earthquake led to a permanent uplift of Tirúa of about 180 cm above sea level, the highest recorded uplift related to the earthquake.[6] This caused a large islet to form at the mouth of Tirúa River next to the town.[6] The Misión Jesuita Mapuche is based in Tirúa.
Contulmo (Mapudungun: "place of transit") is a Chilean town and commune in Arauco Province, Biobío Region. Colonized by Germans of Berlin since 1884.
Arauco is a city and commune (Spanish: comuna) in Chile, located in Arauco Province in the Bío Bío Region. The meaning of Arauco means Chalky Water in Mapudungun. The region was a Moluche aillarehue. The Spanish settlements founded here during the Conquest of Chile were destroyed on numerous occasions by the Mapuche during the Arauco War.
Arauco Province (Spanish: Provincia de Arauco) is one of four provinces of the Chilean region of Bío Bío. It spans a coastal area of 6,366 km2 (2,458 sq mi) just south of the mouth of the Biobío River, the traditional demarcation between the nation's major natural regions, Zona Central and Zona Sur. The province originally covered the once-independent indigenous territory of Araucanía, but this was afterward divided into four provinces. It is devoted largely to agricultural pursuits. The capital Lebu (population 25,000) is situated on the coast about 90 km (56 mi) south of Concepción with which it is connected by rail.[4]
Santa Bárbara is a Chilean city and commune in Bío Bío Province, Bío Bío Region. In 2004 a great portion of its territory was taken off to form the new commune of Alto Bío Bío.
Nacimiento (Spanish pronunciation: [nasiˈmjento], English: Birth) is a Chilean city situated in the Bío Bío Province, Bío Bío Region, 550 km (342 mi) south of Santiago, and 104 km (65 mi) from the closest major city in the region, Concepción.
Mulchén is a city and commune in Bío Bío Province of Bío Bío Region, Chile. It was first settled in 1871 by soldiers during the so-called Pacification of Araucania. In 1875 Mulchén was officially founded.
Los Ángeles (Spanish pronunciation: [los ˈaŋxeles]) is the capital of the province of Bío Bío, in the commune of the same name, in Bío Bío, in the center-south of Chile. It is located between the Laja and Biobío rivers. The population is 186,671 inhabitants (census 2012). The municipality ("comuna") of Los Ángeles has the highest absolute rural population of any Chilean municipality.
Arica (/əˈriːkə/ ə-REE-kə; Spanish: [aˈɾika]) is a commune and a port city with a population of 222,619 in the Arica Province of northern Chile's Arica y Parinacota Region. It is Chile's northernmost city, being located only 18 km (11 mi) south of the border with Peru. The city is the capital of both the Arica Province and the Arica and Parinacota Region. Arica is located at the bend of South America's western coast known as the Arica Bend or Arica Elbow. At the location of the city are two valleys that dissect the Atacama Desert converge: Azapa and Lluta. These valleys provide citrus and olives for export.[3]
Putre is a Chilean town and commune, capital of the Parinacota Province in the Arica-Parinacota Region. It is located 130 km (81 mi) east of Arica, at an altitude of 3,500 m (11,483 ft). The town is backdropped by Taapaca volcanic complex.
Parinacota Province (Spanish: Provincia de Parinacota) is one of two provinces of the Chilean region of Arica y Parinacota. Its capital is Putre. It is named after the Parinacota Volcano.
Arica Province (Spanish: Provincia de Arica) is one of two provinces of Chile's northernmost region, Arica y Parinacota. The province is bordered on the north by the Tacna Province of Peru, on the south by the Tamarugal Province in the Tarapacá Region, on the east the Parinacota Province and on the west by the Pacific Ocean. Its capital is the port city of Arica.
Valdivia Province (Spanish: Provincia de Valdivia; pronounced [balˈdiβja]) is one of two provinces of the southern Chilean region of Los Ríos (XIV). The provincial capital is Valdivia. Located in the province are two important rivers, the Calle-Calle / Valdivia River and the Cruces River. It is part of Northern Patagonia and its wild virgin forest embrace the Patagonian Cordillera following the river Calle Calle down to the Pacific Ocean. It is known in Patagonia by the term "Bosque Valdiviano", referring to the primitive forest of Valdivia with its native trees. These forests are present in some parts of Northern Patagonia, both in Chile and Argentina.
Río Bueno is a city and commune in southern Chile administered by the  Municipality of Río Bueno. It is located in Ranco Province in Los Ríos Region. Río Bueno takes its name from the Bueno River which flows through the city and commune.
Rio Bueno is one of the better rivers to fish.
La Unión is a city and commune of the Ranco Province in the Los Ríos Region in Chile. It is situated approximately 40 km north of Osorno and 80 km southeast of Valdivia. Covering an area of 2,136.7 km2, it has a population of 36,447, of which 25,615 are considered part of the urban population, according to the 2012 census. The commune derived its name from the confluence of the Llollelhue and Radimadi rivers.
Futrono (from the Mapudungun: Futronhue, meaning "place of smoke") is a city and commune in southern Chile administered by the Municipality of Futrono. It is located in Ranco Province in Los Ríos Region, on the northwest shore of Ranco Lake.
Panguipulli (/ˌpæŋɡiˈpuːji/ PANG-gee-POO-yee; Mapudungun for "hill of the puma") is a city and commune in Valdivia Province, southern Chile, administered by the Municipality of Panguipulli.   It is located on the western edge of Panguipulli Lake, and is on a moraine in the Chilean Central Valley. Most of the commune lies on Andean mountains and valleys.
Mariquina is a commune in southern Chile, Valdivia Province, Los Ríos Region. It is located about 40 km northeast of Valdivia, close to Cruces River. The capital is the city of San José de la Mariquina. The commune's main economic activities are agriculture, cattle farming and wood pulp manufacturing.
Máfil (Mapudungun for embraced between rivers) is a city and commune of the Valdivia Province, Los Ríos Region in southern Chile, about 30 km northeast  of Valdivia. The main economic activities of Máfil are forestry, cattle farming, cultivation and gold and coal mining the Madre de Dios and Mulpún areas.  Its population was 7,213 persons per the 2002 census.
Lanco is a city and commune in southern Chile administered by the  Municipality of Lanco. It is located in Valdivia Province in Los Ríos Region, about 69 km (43 mi) northeast of Valdivia by road,[4] close to Cruces River.
The Los Ríos Region  (Spanish: Región de Los Ríos, pronounced [loz ˈri.os], lit. Region of the Rivers) is one of Chile's 16 regions, the country's first-order administrative divisions. Its capital is Valdivia. It began to operate as a region on October 2, 2007, having been created by subdividing the Los Lagos Region in southern Chile. It consists of two provinces: Valdivia and the newly created Ranco Province, which was formerly part of Valdivia Province.
The Araucanía[3] (/ˌærɔːˈkeɪniə/ ARR-aw-KAY-nee-ə[citation needed]),  La Araucanía Region[4][5][6] (Spanish: Región de La Araucanía pronounced [aɾawkaˈni.a])[7] is one of Chile's 16 first-order administrative divisions, and comprises two provinces: Malleco in the north and Cautín in the south. Its capital and largest city is Temuco; other important cities include Angol and Villarrica.
Collipulli is a city and commune forming part of the Malleco Province in the Araucanía Region in southern Chile. Its name means "coloured lands" in the Mapuche language spoken in the area. It has a population of 22,354 (2005) and an area of 1,296 km2 (500 sq mi). Its current mayor is Manuel Macaya Ramírez.
Malleco Province (Spanish: Provincia de Malleco) is one of two provinces in the southern Chilean region of La Araucanía (IX). Its population as of the 2017 census is 205,124, and it covers an area of 13,433.3 km2 (5,187 sq mi). The provincial capital is the city of Angol.
Pucón (Mapudungun: "entrance to the cordillera") is a Chilean city and commune administered by the municipality of Pucón. It is located in the Province of Cautín, Araucanía Region, 100 km to the southeast of Temuco and 780 km to the south of Santiago. It is on the eastern shore of Lake Villarrica, and Villarrica volcano is located roughly 17 km to the south.
Cautín Province (Spanish: Provincia de Cautín) is one of two provinces in the southern Chilean region of La Araucanía (IX), bounded on the north by Arauco and Malleco provinces, on the east by Argentina, on the south by Valdivia Province, and on the west by the Pacific Ocean. Its population at the 2012 census was of 692,582. The most important communes are Temuco, Villarrica, Padre Las Casas, and Nueva Imperial. Cattle, forestry, and agriculture make up most of Cautin's economy. Its climate is humid, rainy in winter, and generally warm in summer.
Última Esperanza (Spanish: Provincia de Última Esperanza, meaning "Last Hope Province") is one of four provinces in the southern Chilean region of Magallanes and Antártica Chilena. The capital is Puerto Natales and it is named after Última Esperanza Sound. A section of its border with Argentina in the Southern Patagonian Ice Field is under dispute.[5]
Cabo de Hornos (Cape Horn) is a Chilean commune located in the south of Tierra del Fuego archipelago, in Antártica Province, Magallanes Region. The municipality of Cabo de Hornos, located in the town of Puerto Williams, also administers the Antártica commune. It is named for Cabo de Hornos, or "Cape Horn", the southern tip of South America.
Antártica Chilena Province (Spanish: Provincia Antártica Chilena) is the southernmost and one of four provinces in Chile's southernmost region, Magallanes and Antártica Chilena Region (XII). The capital is Puerto Williams. The province comprises the extreme southern part of Isla Grande de Tierra del Fuego (south of the Cordillera Darwin), the islands south and west of Isla Grande (Diego Ramírez Islands), and Chile's claims in Antarctica.[4]  The province is administratively divided into two communes (comunas):  Cabo de Hornos, located at the southern tip of South America, and Antártica, a wedge-shaped claim of Antarctica, which is not internationally recognized. Its total area of 1,265,853.7 km2 (488,749 sq mi)[1] makes it almost twice as large as all other provinces of Chile combined.
The Governorate of Terra Australis[1] or Governorate of Pedro Sancho de la Hoz was a Spanish Governorate of the Crown of Castile created in 1539[2] which was granted to Pedro Sancho de la Hoz[3][4][5] and consisted in all the territories to the south of the Strait of Magellan until the South Pole and to the East and West the borders were the ones specified in the Treaty of Tordesillas and Zaragoza and respectively.[2]
The Great Potosí Mint Fraud of 1649 was a financial fraud involving the fineness of silver coinage that began in Potosí, Bolivia. The scandal had worldwide effects that lasted for decades.[1]
Slavery in the Spanish American colonies was an economic and social institution which existed throughout the Spanish Empire including Spain itself. In its American territories, Spain displayed an early abolitionist stance towards indigenous people, although some instances of illegal Native American slavery continued to be practiced, particularly until the New Laws of 1543. The Spanish empire, however was involved in the enslavement of people of African origin. Although the Spanish often depended on others to obtain enslaved Africans and transport them across the Atlantic,[1][2] the Spanish Empire was a major recipient of enslaved Africans, with around 22% of the Africans delivered to American shores ending up in the Spanish Empire.[3] Asian people (chinos) in colonial Mexico were also taken from the Philippines and enslaved. They were taken to Acapulco by Novohispanic ships and sold.[4]
Casta (Spanish: [ˈkasta]) is a term which means "lineage" in Spanish and Portuguese and has historically been used as a racial and social identifier. In the context of the Spanish Empire in the Americas it also refers to a now-discredited 20th-century theoretical framework which postulated that colonial society operated under a hierarchical race-based "caste system". From the outset, colonial Spanish America resulted in widespread intermarriage: unions of Spaniards (españoles), Amerindians (indios), and Africans (negros). Basic mixed-race categories that appeared in official colonial documentation were mestizo, generally offspring of a Spaniard and an indigenous person; and mulatto, offspring of a Spaniard and an African. A plethora of terms were used for people with mixed Spanish, Amerindian, and African ancestry in 18th-century casta paintings, but they are not known to have been widely used officially or unofficially in the Spanish Empire.
South Asia
Racial integration, or simply integration, includes desegregation (the process of ending systematic racial segregation). In addition to desegregation, integration includes goals such as leveling barriers to association, creating equal opportunity regardless of race, and the development of a culture that draws on diverse traditions, rather than merely bringing a racial minority into the majority culture. Desegregation is largely a legal matter, integration largely a social one.
Leonard Steinhorn is an author, CBS News political analyst, and professor of communication and affiliate professor of history at American University. He teaches, writes and lectures on American politics and presidential elections; the 1960s in America; baby boomers; recent American history; and race relations in the United States.
Robert A. Lehrman is an American novelist, commentator, speechwriter, and teacher.
Alliance for Justice (AFJ) is a progressive judicial advocacy group in the United States.[4][5] Founded in 1979 by former president Nan Aron, AFJ monitors federal judicial appointments. AFJ represents a coalition of 100 politically leftist groups that have an interest in the federal judiciary.[6] The Alliance for Justice presents a modern liberal viewpoint on legal issues.[7]
YWCA USA is a nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating racism, empowering women, and promoting peace, justice, freedom, and dignity for all.[1] It is one of the "oldest and largest multicultural organizations promoting solutions to enhance the lives of women, girls and families."[2]
The Sophia Smith Collection at Smith College is an internationally recognized repository of manuscripts, photographs, periodicals and other primary sources in women's history.[1][2]
The tax on childlessness (Russian: налог на бездетность, romanized: nalog na bezdetnost) was imposed in the Soviet Union and other Communist countries, starting in the 1940s, as part of their natalist policies. Joseph Stalin's regime created the tax in order to encourage adult people to reproduce, thus increasing the number of people and the population of the Soviet Union. The 6% income tax affected men from the age of 25 to 50, and married women from 20 to 45 years of age.[1]
Child benefit or children's allowance is a social security payment which is distributed to the parents or guardians of children, teenagers and in some cases, young adults. A number of countries operate different versions of the program. In most countries, child benefit is means-tested and the amount of child benefit paid is usually dependent on the number of children one has.
A bachelor tax is a punitive tax imposed on unmarried men. In the modern era, many countries do vary tax rates by marital status, so current references to bachelor taxes are typically implicit rather than explicit; and given the state of tax law is very complicated, as tax accountancy concepts like income splitting can come into play.[1][2]
A baby bonus is a government payment to parents of a newborn baby or adopted child to assist with the costs of childrearing.
A two-child policy is a government-imposed limit of two children allowed per family or the payment of government subsidies only to the first two children.
Abortion in China is generally legal and accessible nationwide.[1][2][3][4] Abortions are available to most women through China's family planning programme, public hospitals, private hospitals, and clinics nationwide.[4]  China was one of the first developing countries to legalize abortion and make it easily accessible.[4] Following the Chinese Communist Revolution and the proclamation of the People's Republic of China in 1949, the country has periodically switched between more restrictive abortion policies to more liberal abortion policies and reversals.  Abortion regulations may vary depending on the rules of the province; in Jiangxi and Guizhou,[5] non-medically necessary abortions after 14 weeks of pregnancy are not allowed, while throughout most of China elective abortions are legal. Although sex-selective abortions are illegal nationwide, they were previously commonplace, leading to a sex-ratio imbalance in China which still exists.
In China, there are significantly fewer women than men, leading to an imbalanced population sex ratio resulting from cultural influences and government policy. This phenomenon is sometimes referred to as the missing women or missing girls of China.[1][2]
Transgender is an overarching term to describe persons whose gender identity/expression differs from what is typically associated with the gender they were assigned at birth.[1]
Since "transgender studies" was institutionalized as an academic discipline in the 1990s, it is difficult to apply transgender to Chinese culture in a historical context. There were no transgender groups or communities in Hong Kong until after the turn of the century. Today they are still known as a "sexual minority" in China.[2]
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in Macau, which is a special administrative region of China, face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. While same-sex sexual activity was decriminalized in 1996,[1] same-sex couples and households headed by same-sex couples remain ineligible for some legal rights available to opposite-sex couples.
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) persons in Kuwait face challenges not experienced by non-LGBT Kuwaitis. Homosexuality is specifically outlawed. In addition gay people can be prosecuted under the "debauchery" law. LGBT persons are regularly prosecuted by the government and additionally face stigmatization among the broader population.
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people generally have limited or highly restrictive rights in most parts of the Middle East, and are open to hostility in others. Sex between men is illegal in 9 of the 18 countries that make up the region. It is punishable by death in five of these 18 countries. The rights and freedoms of LGBT citizens are strongly influenced by the prevailing cultural traditions and religious mores of people living in the region – particularly Islam.
The Moroccan Association for Human Rights (Arabic: الجمعية المغربية لحقوق الإنسان, French: Association marocaine des droits humains, abbreviated AMDH) is one of the biggest Moroccan human rights non-governmental organizations.[1][2] It was founded on June 24, 1979, in Rabat to work for the preservation of human dignity and the respect, protection, defense and promotion of human rights in Morocco and Western Sahara.[3] It uses different means to achieve its objectives such as the publication of a monthly newspaper, sit-ins and the holding of conferences.[4][5] The AMDH considers equally crucial building partnerships with internal and external organizations and networks in order to be stronger in the fight for human rights.[6]
The National Human Rights Council  (Arabic: المجلس الوطني لحقوق الإنسان) is a national institution for the protection and promotion of human rights in Morocco. It was established in 1990 as an Advisory Council on Human Rights. Its founding law was amended in 2001 to be in conformity with the Paris Principles, and again in 2011, giving the institution more powers, more autonomy and broad prerogatives to protect and promote human rights in Morocco and also to promote the principles and values of democracy. A new founding law passed in 2018, giving the institution even more powers and a broader mandate (Law #15.76). The Council was thus designated as a national preventive mechanism against torture, as a national disability rights mechanism and a national child redress mechanism.
Rabat (/rəˈbɑːt/, also UK: /rəˈbæt/, US: /rɑːˈbɑːt/;[3][4][5] Arabic: الرِّبَاط, romanized: er-Ribât; Berber languages: ⵕⵕⴱⴰⵟ, romanized: ṛṛbaṭ) is the capital city of Morocco and the country's seventh largest city with an urban population of approximately 580,000 (2014)[2] and a metropolitan population of over 1.2 million. It is also the capital city of the Rabat-Salé-Kénitra administrative region.[6] Rabat is located on the Atlantic Ocean at the mouth of the river Bou Regreg, opposite Salé, the city's main commuter town.
The Trinitarians, formally known as the Order of the Most Holy Trinity and of the Captives (Latin: Ordo Sanctissimae Trinitatis et Captivorum; abbreviated OSsT), is a mendicant order of the Catholic Church for men founded in Cerfroid, outside Paris, in the late 12th century. From the very outset, a special dedication to the mystery of the Holy Trinity has been a constitutive element of the order's life.
Catholic laity are the ordinary members of the Catholic Church who are neither clergy nor recipients of Holy Orders or vowed to life in a religious order or congregation. Their mission, according to the Second Vatican Council, is to "sanctify the world".
Catholic higher education includes universities, colleges, and other institutions of higher education privately run by the Catholic Church, typically by religious institutes. Those tied to the Holy See are specifically called pontifical universities.
Catholic schools are pre-primary, primary and secondary educational institutions administered in association with the Catholic Church. As of 2011[update], the Catholic Church operates the world's largest religious, non-governmental school system.[1] In 2016, the church supported 43,800 secondary schools and 95,200 primary schools.[2] The schools include religious education alongside secular subjects in their curriculum.
The Catholic Church is the largest non-government provider of health care services in the world.[1] It has around 18,000 clinics, 16,000 homes for the elderly and those with special needs, and 5,500 hospitals, with 65 percent of them located in developing countries.[2] In 2010, the Church's Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Health Care Workers said that the Church manages 26% of the world's health care facilities.[3] The Church's involvement in health care has ancient origins.
Pax Christi International is an international Catholic peace movement. The Pax Christi International website declares its mission is "to transform a world shaken by violence, terrorism, deepening inequalities, and global insecurity."[1]
CIDSE, which is short for "Coopération Internationale pour le Développement et la Solidarité" (French for "International Cooperation for Development and Solidarity"), is an umbrella organization for Catholic development agencies from Europe and North America.
Catholic Relief Services (CRS) is the international humanitarian agency of the Catholic community in the United States. Founded in 1943 by the Bishops of the United States, the agency provides assistance to 130 million people in more than 110 countries and territories in Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and Eastern Europe.
Aid effectiveness is the degree of success or failure of international aid (development aid or humanitarian aid). Concern with aid effectiveness might be at a high level of generality (whether aid on average fulfils the main functions that aid is supposed to have), or it might be more detailed (considering relative degrees of success between different types of aid in differing circumstances).
Humanitarian Networks and Partnerships Weeks (HNPW) is an annual event organized the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.
The Inter-Agency Standing Committee (IASC) is an inter-agency forum of United Nations and non-UN humanitarian partners founded in 1991 to strengthen humanitarian assistance.[1] The overall objective of the IASC is to improve the delivery of humanitarian assistance to affected populations. The Committee was established following UN General Assembly Resolution 46/182 and resolution 48/57 confirmed that it should be the primary method for inter-agency coordination.[1] The committee is chaired by the Emergency Relief Coordinator.[1]
Crisis mapping (also known as disaster mapping) is the real-time gathering, display and analysis of data during a crisis, usually a natural disaster or social/political conflict (violence, elections, etc.).[1] Crisis mapping projects usually allows large numbers of people, including the public and crisis responders, to contribute information either remotely or from the site of the crisis. One benefit of the crisis mapping method over others is that it can increase situational awareness, since the public can report information and improve data management.[2]
Crowdmapping is a subtype of crowdsourcing[1][2] by which aggregation of crowd-generated inputs such as captured communications and social media feeds are combined with geographic data to create a digital map that is as up-to-date as possible[3] on events such as wars, humanitarian crises, crime, elections, or natural disasters.[4][5][6] Such maps are typically created collaboratively by people coming together over the Internet.[3][7]
The Social Science Research Network (SSRN) is a repository for preprints devoted to the rapid dissemination of scholarly research in the social sciences, humanities, life sciences, and health sciences, among others. Elsevier bought SSRN from Social Science Electronic Publishing Inc. in May 2016.[1]
The New York Comic Con is an annual New York City fan convention dedicated to Western comics, graphic novels, anime, manga, video games, cosplay,[4] toys, movies, and television. It was first held in 2006.[5]
MusicBrainz is a MetaBrainz project that aims to create a collaborative music database that is similar to the freedb project. MusicBrainz was founded in response to the restrictions placed on the Compact Disc Database (CDDB), a database for software applications to look up audio CD information on the Internet. MusicBrainz has expanded its goals to reach beyond a CD metadata (this is information about the performers, artists, songwriters, etc.) storehouse to become a structured online database for music.[4][5]
Puddletag is a graphical audio file metadata editor ("tagger") for Unix-like operating systems.
David Vignoni (born 1980) is a graphic designer specialising in icon and digital product design.
Cornelius Schumacher (born 1 December 1969 in Tübingen, Germany) is a German open source software developer. He was born in Tübingen but lives in Erlangen, Germany.
Nuno Pinheiro is a Portuguese graphic designer and illustrator. He specializes in iconography, themes and user interface design.  Pinheiro's works include general illustrations, UI design, Web design, corporate design, as well as other works in creative areas.
Celeste Lyn Paul (born 13 August 1981) is an expert in interface design and usability. She is a contributor to KDE.
Frank Karlitschek (born 25 July 1973) is a German open source software developer living in Stuttgart, Germany.
Matthias Kalle Dalheimer (born May 27, 1970) is a published author and software consultant from Sweden. He ported the StarOffice office suite to Linux and he was one of KDE’s first contributors. In August 2002 he was elected as president of KDE e.V.[1]
KDE.News (KDE Dot News) is the official news website for the KDE free software community. It includes KDE development and user news, discussions, and feature articles. Most stories are summaries of things published elsewhere; some are interviews with KDE developers. The site also includes links to recent software releases and developers' weblog postings.[1]
Akademy (capitalized as aKademy before 2009) is an annual contributors and users conference of the KDE community. Akademy is held at varying venues in Europe.
PulseAudio is a network-capable sound server program distributed via the freedesktop.org project. It runs mainly on Linux, various BSD distributions such as FreeBSD and OpenBSD, macOS, as well as Illumos distributions and the Solaris operating system.
The Portland Project is an initiative by freedesktop.org aiming at easing the portability of application software between desktop environments and kernels by designing cross-platform APIs and offering implementations thereof as libraries to independent software vendors (ISVs).
Telepathy is a software framework which can be used to make software for interpersonal communications such as instant messaging, Voice over IP or videoconferencing. Telepathy enables the creation of communications applications using components via the D-Bus inter-process communication mechanism. Through this it aims to simplify development of communications applications and promote code reuse within the free software and open source communities by defining a logical boundary between the applications and underlying network protocols.
The Open Collaboration Services (OCS) is an open and vendor-independent REST-based API for integration of web communities and web-based services into desktop and mobile applications. It allows the exchange of relevant data from a social network between the site and clients such as other websites and applications or widgets running locally on the user's machine or mobile device.
CppUnit is a unit testing framework module for the C++ programming language. It allows unit-testing of C sources as well as C++ with minimal source modification. It was started around 2000 by Michael Feathers as a C++ port of JUnit for Windows and ported to Unix by Jerome Lacoste.[2] The library is released under the GNU Lesser General Public License.
Collabora is a global private company headquartered in Cambridge, United Kingdom, with offices in Cambridge and Montreal. It provides open-source consultancy, training and products to companies.[2]
The LOT (License on Transfer) Network is a nonprofit organization that was formed to combat patent assertion entities (PAEs), also known as patent trolls, by cross-licensing patents that fall into the hands of PAEs.[1]
Open Invention Network (OIN) is a company that acquires patents and licenses them royalty-free to its community members who, in turn, agree not to assert their own patents against Linux and Linux-related systems and applications.[1]
RPX Corporation (Rational Patent EXchange) is an American provider of international risk management services for patents. The company was founded in March 2008,[2] and is based in San Francisco. It was incorporated on July 15, 2008.[1] By acquiring patents that pose potential problems and providing information on litigation, RPX seeks to reduce patent assertions directed at its clients.
Allied Security Trust (AST) is an independent, not-for-profit cooperative that provides its Members with a method of mitigating the risk of patent assertions and litigation.
PatentFreedom is an on-line community of companies that access and share information about non-practicing entities that own and enforce patents primarily to collect license fees.  The company offers membership to operating companies as well as law firms representing them. The company was founded in May 2008.
Richard "Rick" G. Frenkel [1] (born 1966 or 1967 [2]) was an in-house intellectual property counsel and director of intellectual property at Cisco Systems.[3][4] He was once the anonymous author of the Patent Troll Tracker blog, focusing on the subject of "patent trolls" [2] and "a must-read blog among top intellectual property litigators".[3]
Dennis David Crouch[1] (born April 30, 1975 [2] in Columbia, South Carolina[3]) is an American patent attorney who worked for McDonnell Boehnen Hulbert & Berghoff LLP (MBHB) in Chicago, Illinois, until 2007.[4] In 2007, he accepted a post of associate professor at the University of Missouri School of Law in Columbia, Missouri.[4]
IPKat is a law blog founded in June 2003, and dedicated to intellectual property law (IP) with a focus on European law.[1][2] The content comprises news of recent judicial rulings, decisions of patent and trade mark granting authorities, primary and secondary legislation, practice and procedural notes and recent publications, together with comments.
A European Union trade mark or EU trade mark (abbreviated EUTM; named Community Trade Mark (CTM) until 23 March 2016) is a trade mark which is pending registration or has been registered in the European Union as a whole (rather than on a national level within the EU).[1]
World Trademark Review is a website and magazine covering the commercial and international practice of trademark law. Subscribers receive a print magazine once every other month and a daily email newsletter featuring news stories, feature articles and legal updates from a panel of trademark experts.
This list includes notable journals and magazines concerned with intellectual property (IP) law and business, and their various sub-fields, such as copyright, patent and trademark laws. The list also includes official journals and gazettes of patent offices.
This list of law journals includes notable academic periodicals on law. The law reviews are grouped by jurisdiction or country and then into subject areas.
The following is a partial list of social science journals, including history and area studies. There are thousands of academic journals covering the social sciences in publication, and many more have been published at various points in the past. The list given here is far from exhaustive, and contains the most influential, currently publishing journals in each field. As a rule of thumb, each field should be represented by at most ten positions, chosen by their impact factors and other ratings. There are many important academic magazines that are not true peer-reviewed journals. They are not listed here.
Geisteswissenschaften (German pronunciation: [ˈɡaɪstəsˌvɪsənʃaftən], "sciences of mind", lit. "spirit science") is a set of human sciences such as philosophy, history, philology, musicology, linguistics, theater studies, literary studies, media studies, and sometimes even theology and jurisprudence, that are traditional in German universities. Most of its subject matter would come under Humanities in the typical English-speaking university.
One-Dimensional Man: Studies in the Ideology of Advanced Industrial Society is a 1964 book by the philosopher and critical theorist Herbert Marcuse, in which the author offers a wide-ranging critique of both contemporary capitalism and the Communist society of the Soviet Union, documenting the parallel rise of new forms of social repression in both these societies, as well as the decline of revolutionary potential in the West. He argues that "advanced industrial society" created false needs, which integrated individuals into the existing system of production and consumption via mass media, advertising, industrial management, and contemporary modes of thought.[1]
The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962; second edition 1970; third edition 1996; fourth edition 2012) is a book about the history of science by philosopher Thomas S. Kuhn. Its publication was a landmark event in the history, philosophy, and sociology of science.  Kuhn challenged the then prevailing view of progress in science in which scientific progress was viewed as "development-by-accumulation" of accepted facts and theories. Kuhn argued for an episodic model in which periods of conceptual continuity where there is cumulative progress, which Kuhn referred to as periods of "normal science", were interrupted by periods of revolutionary science. The discovery of "anomalies" during revolutions in science leads to new paradigms.  New paradigms then ask new questions of old data, move beyond the mere "puzzle-solving" of the previous paradigm, change the rules of the game and the "map" directing new research.[1]
Truth and Method (German: Wahrheit und Methode) is a 1960 book by the philosopher Hans-Georg Gadamer, in which the author deploys the concept of "philosophical hermeneutics" as it is worked out in Martin Heidegger's Being and Time (1927). The book is considered Gadamer's major work.[1]
The Gadamer–Derrida debate concerns the issue of the containment of otherness in Gadamer's hermeneutics and it began with an encounter between Hans-Georg Gadamer and Jacques Derrida in April 1981 in a Sorbonne conference in Paris on "Text and Interpretation".[1] Before this debate, there had not been any confrontation or dialogue between hermeneutics in Germany and post-structuralism in France.[2][3][4]
The Reception of Derrida: Translation and Transformation (Palgrave, 2006) by Michael Thomas explores the cross-cultural reception of Jacques Derrida's work, specifically how that work in all its diversity, has come to be identified with the word deconstruction. In response to this cultural and academic phenomenon, the book examines how Derrida's own understanding of translation and inheritance illuminate the 'translation and transformation' of his own works. Positioned against the misreadings of deconstruction, the book traces the relationship between Derrida's concern with the ethico-political dimension of deconstruction and an authorial legacy.[1]
Derrida is a 2002 American documentary film directed by Kirby Dick and Amy Ziering Kofman about the French philosopher Jacques Derrida.  It premiered at the 2002 Sundance Film Festival before being released theatrically on October 23, 2002.
On the Record is a 2020 American documentary film directed by Kirby Dick and Amy Ziering. It centers on allegations of sexual abuse and harassment against hip-hop mogul Russell Simmons. Executive producer Oprah Winfrey publicly withdrew from the film shortly before it was released, citing "creative differences", severing a production deal with Apple TV+.[2] The film premiered at Sundance on January 25, 2020, and was acquired by HBO Max, which released it digitally on May 27, 2020.[3][4][5][6]
The Invisible War is a 2012 American documentary film written and directed by Kirby Dick and produced by Amy Ziering and Tanner King Barklow about sexual assault in the United States military. It premiered at the 2012 Sundance Film Festival, where it received the U.S. Documentary Audience Award.[2] The film has been lauded by advocates, lawmakers, and journalists for its influence on government policies to reduce the prevalence of rape in the armed forces.[3]
Outrage is a 2009 American documentary film written and directed by Kirby Dick. The film presents a narrative discussing the hypocrisy of people purported in the documentary to be closeted gay or bisexual politicians who promote anti-gay legislation. It premiered at the 2009 Tribeca Film Festival before being released theatrically on May 8, 2009. It was nominated for a 2010 Emmy Award, and won Miami Gay and Lesbian Film Festival's jury award for best documentary. The documentary's prime subject was Michael Rogers, founder of BlogActive.com.
Twist of Faith is a 2004 American documentary film about a man who confronts the Catholic Church about the abuse he suffered as a teenager, directed by Kirby Dick. The film was produced for the cable network HBO and screened at the 2005 Sundance Film Festival. It received an Academy Award nomination for Best Documentary Feature.[1]
The Catholic Church has been criticised in fiction, such as literature, film and television. Polemics have also been written on the Church and its practices. Some examples are the anti-Catholic stereotypes that filled Gothic fiction of Anglican England, the films of Luis Buñuel who took issue with the Church in Spain, the humor of some US television pundits like Rosie O'Donnell, and the rhetoric of some fundamentalist preachers.
Michael Burleigh (born 3 April 1955) is an English author and historian whose primary focus is on Nazi Germany and related subjects. He has also been active in bringing history to television.
Standpoint was a British cultural and political magazine, originally published monthly, that debuted in June 2008.[1] It ceased to be published regularly in 2020, with a final issue coming out in mid 2021.
Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) is a United States government funded organization that broadcasts and reports news, information, and analysis to countries in Eastern Europe, Central Asia, Caucasus, and the Middle East where it says that "the free flow of information is either banned by government authorities or not fully developed".[6][7] RFE/RL is a private, non-profit 501(c)(3) corporation supervised by the U.S. Agency for Global Media, an independent government agency overseeing all U.S. federal government international broadcasting services.[8] Jeremy Bransten is acting editor-in-chief of RFE.[9]
Soviet involvement in regime change entailed both overt and covert actions aimed at altering, replacing, or preserving foreign governments.
Cultural Cold War refers to propaganda campaigns waged by both the United States and the Soviet Union during the Cold War, with each country promoting their own culture, arts, literature, and music. In addition, less overtly, their opposing political choices and ideologies at the expense of the other. Many of the battles were fought in Europe or in European Universities,[1] with Communist Party leaders depicting the United States as a cultural black hole while pointing to their own cultural heritage as proof that they were the inheritors of the European Enlightenment.[2] The U.S. responded by accusing the Soviets of "disregarding the inherent value of culture," and subjugating art to the controlling policies of a totalitarian political system, even as they felt saddled with the responsibility of preserving and fostering western civilization's best cultural traditions, given the many European artists who took refuge in the United States before, during, and after World War II.[2]
The United States of America has conducted espionage against the Soviet Union and its successor state, the Russian Federation.
Debs v. United States,
The Jefferson Literary and Debating Society (commonly known "Jeff Soc") is the oldest continuously existing collegiate debating society in North America, having been founded on July 14, 1825, in Room Seven, West Lawn.[1][2][3] Named after founder of the University, Thomas Jefferson, the society regularly meets on Friday evenings at Hotel C in the Academical Village, referred to as "Jefferson Hall", "Jeff Hall", or simply "The Hall".
Isham Randolph (February 24, 1687 – November 2, 1742) was a planter, a merchant, a public official, and a shipmaster.[1] He was the maternal grandfather of United States President Thomas Jefferson.[1]
Randolph Jefferson (October 1, 1755 – August 7, 1815) was the younger brother of Thomas Jefferson, the only male sibling to survive infancy.[1] He was a planter and owner of the Snowden plantation that he inherited from his father. He served the local militia for about ten years, making captain of the local militia in 1794. He also served during the Revolutionary War.
Lucy Lewis, née  Jefferson (October 10, 1752 – May 26, 1810) was a younger sister of United States President Thomas Jefferson and the wife of Charles Lilburn Lewis.
Jane Randolph Jefferson (February 10, 1720 – March 31, 1776)[a] was the wife of Peter Jefferson and the mother of US president Thomas Jefferson. Born in the parish of Shadwell, near London, she was the daughter of Isham Randolph, a ship's captain and a planter. Jefferson was proud of her heritage and brought customs of aristocracy to her family. Jefferson was revered within her family's household and positively influenced her son, Thomas Jefferson.
Peter Jefferson (February 29, 1708 – August 17, 1757) was a planter, cartographer and politician in colonial Virginia best known for being the father of the third president of the United States, Thomas Jefferson. The "Fry-Jefferson Map", created by Peter in collaboration with Joshua Fry in 1757, accurately charted the Allegheny Mountains for the first time and showed the route of "The Great Road from the Yadkin River through Virginia to Philadelphia distant 455 Miles"—what would later come to be known as the Great Wagon Road.
Frederick Madison Roberts (September 14, 1879 – July 19, 1952) was an American newspaper owner and editor, educator and business owner; he became a politician, the first known man of African American descent elected to the California State Assembly.  He served there for 16 years and became known as "dean of the assembly."  He has been honored as the first person of African-American descent to be elected to public office among the states on the West Coast.
John Wayles Jefferson (born John Wayles Hemings; May 8, 1835 – June 12, 1892), was an American businessman and Union Army officer in the American Civil War.  He is believed to be a grandson of Thomas Jefferson; his paternal grandmother is Sarah (Sally) Hemings, Jefferson's mixed-race slave and half-sister to his late wife.
George Wythe Randolph (March 10, 1818 – April 3, 1867) was a Virginia lawyer, planter, politician and Confederate general. After representing the City of Richmond during the Virginia Secession Convention in 1861, during eight months in 1862 he was the Confederate States Secretary of War during the American Civil War, then served in the Virginia Senate representing the City of Richmond until the war's end.[1]
Francis Wayles Eppes (September 20, 1801 – May 30, 1881) was a planter and slave owner from Virginia who became a cotton planter in the Florida Territory and later civic leader in Tallahassee and surrounding Leon County, Florida. After reaching legal age and marrying, Eppes operated the Poplar Forest plantation which his grandfather  President Thomas Jefferson had established in Bedford County, Virginia, which he inherited. However, in 1829 he moved with his family to near Tallahassee, Florida. Long interested in education, in 1856 Eppes donated land and money to designate a school in Tallahassee as one of the first two state-supported seminaries, now known as Florida State University. He served as president of its board of trustees for eight years.[1]
Eston Hemings Jefferson (May 21, 1808 – January 3, 1856) was born into slavery at Monticello, the youngest son of Sally Hemings, a mixed-race enslaved woman. Most historians who have considered the question believe that his father was Thomas Jefferson, the third President of the United States.[1] Evidence from a 1998 DNA test showed that a descendant of Eston matched the Jefferson male line, and historical evidence also supports the conclusion that Thomas Jefferson was probably Eston's father.[1][2][3][4] Many historians believe that Jefferson and Sally Hemings had six children together, four of whom survived to adulthood.[5] Other historians disagree.[6]
James Madison Hemings (January 19, 1805 – November 28, 1877) was the son of the mixed-race enslaved woman Sally Hemings and her enslaver, President Thomas Jefferson. He was the third of her four children to survive to adulthood.[1] Born into slavery, according to partus sequitur ventrem, Hemings grew up on Jefferson's Monticello plantation, where his mother was enslaved. After some light duties as a young boy, Hemings became a carpenter and fine woodwork apprentice at around age 14 and worked in the joiner's shop until he was about 21. He learned to play the violin and was able to earn money by growing cabbages. Jefferson died in 1826, after which Sally Hemings was "given her time" by Jefferson's surviving daughter Martha Jefferson Randolph.
Harriet Hemings (May 1801 – after 1822) was born into slavery at Monticello, the home of Thomas Jefferson, third President of the United States, in the first year of his presidency. Most historians believe her father was Jefferson, who is now believed to have fathered, with his slave Sally Hemings, four children who survived to adulthood.
Mary Jefferson Eppes (August 1, 1778 – April 17, 1804), known as Polly in childhood and Maria as an adult, was the younger of Thomas Jefferson's two daughters with his wife who survived beyond the age of 3. She married a first cousin, John Wayles Eppes, and had three children with him. Only their son Francis W. Eppes survived childhood. Maria died months after childbirth.
Hardy Rodenstock (7 December 1941 in Marienwerder (Kwidzyn) – 19 May 2018 in Oberaudorf;[1] legal name Meinhard Görke[2]) was a publisher and manager of pop and Schlager music in Germany and a prominent wine collector, connoisseur, and trader, with a special interest in old and rare wines.[3] He became famous for his allegedly uncanny ability to track down old and very rare wines,[4] and for arranging extravagant wine tastings featuring these wines. It has been alleged that Rodenstock was the perpetrator of an elaborate wine fraud. In 1992, a German court found that Rodenstock had "knowingly offered adulterated wine" for sale. On appeal, the case was settled out of court.[3]
Washington is a 2020 American television miniseries directed by Roel Reiné. The three-part miniseries, which premiered on February 16, 2020 on History, chronicles the life of George Washington, the first President of the United States.[2][3][4]
The World Wars is a three-part, six-hour event miniseries by the History Channel that premiered on Monday, May 26, 2014, (Memorial Day) airing for three consecutive nights. An extended version of the series, divided into six episodes with never before seen footage, was subsequently broadcast on H2 and in more than 160 countries on June 22, 2014.[2]
World War II in HD is a History Channel television series that chronicles the hardships of World War II, using rare films shot in color never seen on television before. The episodes premiered on five consecutive days in mid-November 2009, with two episodes per day. The series is narrated by Gary Sinise and was produced by Lou Reda Productions in Easton, Pennsylvania, United States.
Vietnam in HD (known as Vietnam Lost Films outside the US)  is a 6-part American documentary television miniseries that originally aired from November 8 to November 11, 2011 on the History Channel. From the same producers as WWII in HD, the program focuses on the firsthand experiences of thirteen Americans during the Vietnam War. The thirteen Americans retell their stories in Vietnam paired with found footage from the battlefield.
Theodore Roosevelt is a 2022 American television documentary miniseries directed by Malcolm Venville. The two-part miniseries chronicles the life of Theodore Roosevelt, the twenty-sixth President of the United States and premiered on May 30, 2022, on History.[1][2][3]
Texas Rising is a 2015 History Channel 10-hour television miniseries based on the Texas Revolution against Mexico and how the Texas Rangers were created. It is directed by Roland Joffé and premiered on May 25, 2015.[1][2] The series stars Bill Paxton, Jeffrey Dean Morgan, Ray Liotta, Brendan Fraser, Olivier Martinez and Cynthia Addai-Robinson.[3][4]
Sons of Liberty is an American television miniseries dramatizing the early American Revolution events in Boston, Massachusetts, the start of the Revolutionary War, and the negotiations of the Second Continental Congress which resulted in drafting and signing the 1776 United States Declaration of Independence in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The three-part miniseries premiered on History on January 25, 2015, directed by Kari Skogland. The theme music was composed by Hans Zimmer.[1][2]
The Claymont Stone School, also known as Naaman's Creek School #1, is a historic schoolhouse built in 1805, on land donated by Founding Father John Dickinson, in Claymont, Delaware, on the Philadelphia Pike just south of the Darley House. The school was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1990.[1] Its  official Delaware State Historic Marker indicates that the school "may have been the first racially integrated public school in the State."[2]
This is a list of bridges and tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. state of Delaware.[1]
This is a list of bridges and tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. state of Wyoming.[1]
Of the 40 bridges listed only 14 still exist.
This is a list of bridges and tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. state of Wisconsin.[1]
This is a list of bridges and tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. state of West Virginia.[1]
This is a list of bridges on the National Register of Historic Places in Washington, D.C.[1]
This is a list of bridges and tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. state of Virginia.[1]
This is a list of bridges and tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. state of Vermont.[1]
This is a list of bridges and tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. state of Utah.[1]
This is a list of bridges currently on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. state of Texas.[1]
This is a list of bridges and tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. state of Tennessee.[1]
This is a list of bridges and tunnels on the National Register of Historic Places in the U.S. state of South Dakota.[1]
This is a list of the National Register of Historic Places listings in Wind Cave National Park.
This is an incomplete list of Jails and prisons listed on the National Register of Historic Places.  Included are:
The Clearmont Jail is a historic jail located on Water Street in Clearmont, Wyoming. The jail was built in 1922, three years after Clearmont's incorporation, to address the growing crime problem in the town. During the 1920s, the jail was mainly used to house drunkards and bootleggers. Once Prohibition was repealed, the nature of crime in Clearmont changed, though by the 1950s the majority of criminals were still disruptive drunkards. By this point, the jail no longer had modern eating or restroom facilities; while this was considered a deterrent to crime by some residents, the jail stopped housing criminals after 1961 nonetheless. The jail is now a local tourist attraction.[2]
The Historic Preservation Fund (HPF) provides financial support for historic preservation projects throughout the United States. The fund is administered by the National Park Service (NPS), pursuant to the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966 (NHPA). The fund provides state historic preservation agencies with matching funds to implement the act.[1][2]
The Society for History in the Federal Government (SHFG) is a private non-profit organization established in 1979 to promote an understanding of the history of the federal government in the United States and to represent historians serving in the agencies of the U.S. Federal Government.
The American Studies Association (ASA) is a scholarly organization founded in 1951.[1]  It is the oldest scholarly organization devoted to the interdisciplinary study of U.S. culture and history. The ASA works to promote meaningful dialogue about the United States of America, throughout the U.S. and across the globe. Its purpose is to support scholars and scholarship committed to original research, innovative and effective teaching, critical thinking, and public discussion and debate.
The Naval Historical Foundation, was a nonprofit organization founded in 1926 and disbanded in 2022. It had a broad mission to preserve and promote the naval history of the United States by supporting official Sea Services programs and institutions, meeting the needs of the public for naval history, and collecting historical items. The foundation was located at the Washington Navy Yard, in Washington, D.C.
Southeast (SE or S.E.) is the southeastern quadrant of Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States, and is located south of East Capitol Street and east of South Capitol Street. It includes the Capitol Hill and Anacostia neighborhoods, the Navy Yard, the Joint Base Anacostia-Bolling (JBAB), the U.S. Marine Barracks, the Anacostia River waterfront, Eastern Market, the remains of several Civil War-era forts, historic St. Elizabeths Hospital, RFK Stadium, Nationals Park, and the Congressional Cemetery. It also contains a landmark known as "The Big Chair," located on Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue.[1] The quadrant is split by the Anacostia River, with the portion that is west of the river sometimes referred to as "Near Southeast". Geographically, it is the second-smallest quadrant of the city.
Southwest (SW or S.W.) is the southwestern quadrant of Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States, and is located south of the National Mall and west of South Capitol Street. It is the smallest quadrant of the city, and contains a small number of named neighborhoods and districts, including Bellevue, Southwest Federal Center, the Southwest Waterfront, Buzzard Point, and the military installation known as Joint Base Anacostia–Bolling.
Northeast (NE or N.E.) is the northeastern quadrant of Washington, D.C., the capital of the United States. It encompasses the area located north of East Capitol Street and east of North Capitol Street.
